Everything is expensive right now. We
should expect lower returns across the
board, both from stocks and from bonds.
>> When I look at the S&P 493, there's a
lot of businesses in tech hardware. You
don't want to have a scenario where tech
and tech capex slows down.
>> We saw a really good earning season and
some of that has been baked in Nvidia
stock.
>> It's starting to feel to me like we are
paying 2030 prices for 2025 technology.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, one stock dominates.
Tech giant Nvidia gearing up to report
earnings after the closing bell as
investors look to shut out the drama
surrounding the Federal Reserve. The
White House making a move to slap a 50%
tariff on imports from India. The
tension continues to build.
>> There's still a lot of questions that
basically remained unanswered. Not
really sure where the solution is going
when it comes to the Fed. How is that
going to be wrapped up in terms of the
courts when it comes to tariffs on
India? This additional 25% tariff on
imports from India coming into the
United States. Jonathan, is that here to
stay or is this administration still
negotiating mode? And then when it comes
to Nvidia, the key question on the
earnings call is going to also be about
policy. How has policy in Washington
affected their business, especially
critically when it comes to China?
>> You mentioned the Federal Reserve. So,
let's start with the Federal Reserve. If
I was worried about the total erosion of
central bank independence, the emergence
of absolute fiscal dominance, I'd be
looking for some serious dollar
weakness. Didn't see it yesterday, don't
see it this morning
>> because it's going to the courts. And at
the end of the day, the courts are going
to rule on this. So, it doesn't feel
like the president has ultimate absolute
power when it comes to the Fed. That
relies in Congress and it's going to go
to the courts. We're hearing that
potentially as soon as this week, Lisa
Cook could file for injunction, which
means she could still be working, which
means she could still be at the Fed
meeting in September and potentially she
is lining up on the dovish side.
>> Things could get awkward and get awkward
very quickly. The latest reporting from
the team here at Bloomberg is that the
president is pushing for a majority on
the board. And there's talk of this
extending to more scrutiny of regional
Fed presidents. Something that's come up
in conversation a few times,
>> right? Because basically it's the board
that's going to decide about how they
want to maybe revamp, give the renewal
to the presidents. And the president
yesterday, Jonathan, I was in a
three-hour 16-minute cabinet meeting.
The president was asked a few times by
me and others about what is going on at
the Federal Reserve. And he said, "Next
year, I'm looking forward to it. We're
likely going to have a majority and that
means when it comes to rates, they'll be
coming down. Something our the market
should also be focused on next week. We
reported last night the Senate Banking
Committee back in session that hearing
for Steve Meyer set to take place. Now
that's going to be an absolute litmus
test for Democrats and even some
Republicans asking him how he thinks
about Fed independence.
>> That decision September 17th just a few
weeks away for the Federal Reserve.
Equity futures this morning. We're this
far away from alltime highs on the S&P
500. Futures this morning positive by
not even a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Ian Steely of
JP Morgan with the bond market on edge.
Angelo Zeno of CFR looking ahead to
earnings from Nvidia. And we'll catch up
with the former Trump trade official
Kate Kukowitz as 50% tariffs on India
kick in. We begin this out with stocks
and bonds little changed as investors
weigh President Trump's pressure on the
Fed. In steely of JP Morgan writing,
this remains a good environment for
owning fixed income. Yields are still
high relative to the last couple of
decades and the bar to cut rates is much
lower than the bar to hike. Ian joins us
now for more. Ian, welcome to the
program, sir. Is it a good environment
to own treasuries?
>> It does feel that way, doesn't it?
Because I think the big thing that
happened over the last week was Jerome
Powell opened the door for the rate cut
in September. Obviously, there's a lot
of data coming up, both jobs and
inflation between now and then, but it
does feel as if that's the direction of
travel. It's what the administration are
after. yields still look elevated versus
where they've been, as I said, over the
last couple of decades. So, it does feel
like we're in an environment where
owning bonds makes sense and I think
there's an asymmetry in doing so.
>> So, Ian, let's build on that. I know a
lot of people in your camp that like
bonds, but there are limits on how far
out they want to go along the curve. Do
you have limits as well?
>> I think I think you have to have limits
at the moment because ultimately you've
got the Federal Reserve which is going
well does look like they're going to be
lowering rates. Let's figure let's
figure out over the next couple of
quarters by how much that's going to
impact the intermediate part and and
lower. And then you've got the long end
which is being confronted by the fiscal
situation being confronted by questions
around Fed independence. So I do think
the steepener trade makes sense
understanding it is a very crowded
position. It's moved a long way over the
course of this year. But I have got more
confidence in owning shorter dated
intermediate bonds rather than the long
end. And I think that's not just a US
phenomenon. that is a global phenomenon
at the moment.
>> Ian, are you surprised though about
somewhat of the muted market reaction if
the investors are really concerned about
Fed independence?
>> I think I am. Um but when I take a step
back there, I think there's a big
question between having as President
Trump said a majority within the Fed um
who are maybe more doubbish but then
reacting to the stage of how much are
they how doubbish actually are they?
because ultimately the Fed is on an
easing trajectory. If you see rate cuts
that come, maybe we get one a quarter
for the next few quarters, I think
that's okay and the market's actually
happy with that. That's probably in line
with expectations. I think the bigger
concern is if it looked like they were
going to take rates down by the 350
basis points or so that had been asked
for previously. And I think that would
be considered outside of what the market
and what the economy needs at the
moment. I think that's when you would
get more concern around Fed independence
and I think although you've obviously
got some doubbish people in Bowman in
Waller in on the Fed at the moment are
they really doubbish to that extent or
do they just think some of these
maintenance cuts are needed? I think
that's what the market is is is hanging
itself on the moment and I do agree with
John. I'd maybe expected a bit more
volatility and things like the dollar
but ultimately if it's just that
trajectory I think that's why we're
holding up at the moment.
>> And I just want to extend that thought
just a couple of beats. I think this is
really important. The next decision in
some ways is an easy one because most
people on the Federal Reserve believe
we're still quite restrictive if you
look at Fed funds relative to what they
think neutral is. And I want to
understand from your perspective when
that decision gets a little bit harder,
when that conversation gets tougher for
this Federal Reserve.
>> I think it's going to get tougher into
next year. So if you take rates down by
50 basis points, 75 basis points, you're
getting in the 3 and a half% range. I
think that is that's okay. the market's
willing to absorb that based on what's
happening with the labor market at the
moment. If you're seeing actually a
stabilization in the economy, maybe even
a little bit of a reaceleration at the
same time as we still have inflation
north of 2% and above the Fed's target.
I think that's when questions will be
called as to whether they need to go any
further and we're not going to know that
and ultimately we are going to have to
see the data. which I think a lot of
people are are forgetting that although
we've been talking about tariffs since
the beginning of April, they've really
only properly been in effect over the
last couple of weeks or so. So, I do
feel it's going to be very data
dependent. I feel you're completely
right. The next couple of meetings is
probably reasonably straightforward from
a Fed standpoint. Into next year, it's
going to become more challenging.
>> Well, let's stand down inflation. I
think this is really important. The
chairman in his speech in Jackson Hole
on Friday suggested that we could see a
one-time effect, but not all at once.
And I think a lot of people have walked
away with that thinking that the runway
now is a lot longer. This could play out
over a number of quarters. And this was
a chairman setting up the Federal
Reserve to ignore hotter inflation
prints. Was that your interpretation of
what was happening?
>> Yeah. No, that was that was exactly the
way that I think he laid it out. He
talked about that the balance of risks
have now moved from the inflation
market, which is what I think I heard um
at his press conference um back in July,
to the labor market. And obviously the
258,000
um reduction in jobs, the the the the
revisions there, that's obviously been a
big concern will be really eagleized and
the market will be really eagle-eyed on
next week's jobs report. Do we continue
to see a deterioration, a slowdown? Do
we continue to see backwards revisions,
which actually maybe means the labor
market was in a worse place than even
we're thinking at the moment, or do we
start to see a bit of a a re a
stability, a bit of a maybe even a
reaceleration? That's going to be what's
really interesting. But I definitely
think he's moved the conversation away
from the inflation prints to the labor
market, at least in the near term, which
means even if we do get a sort of a hot
print um for the next CPI report, maybe
that won't be enough. Maybe it's going
to be more around the labor market for
at least for the next couple of prints
or so.
>> Well, the president yesterday in this
cabinet meeting said the next jobs
report is going to be good. What happens
if we actually get a very strong NFP
number?
I think that that's a really interesting
question because I think even with a
sort of 100,000 or 150,000 the
three-month rum rate is still going to
be tracking at what most people perceive
to be the neutral rate. And I I think
actually figuring out the neutral rate
given what's going on the supply side is
quite difficult at the moment. But I do
think that's going to call into question
if you get that 150,000 maybe the
unemployment rate ticks down at the same
time as the inflation print the week
later is a little bit elevated. That is
definitely going to cause a lot of
debate around the table at that
September meeting.
>> Mike April and Morgan Stanley's got an
answer for that. So Mike was basically
looking for no cuts in 2025. Now he's
looking for a move in September. He said
payrolls of 225 in August and another
clear acceleration in tariff related
inflation could keep them on hold.
Imagine how controversial Anarie that
would be if on September 17th this
Federal Reserve did not cut interest
rates.
>> Absolutely controversial, especially
given the fact that you had the Fed
chair come out and open the door. But
also that's going to give Jay Powell
political cover. He can point to his
speech politically in Washington and
say, "Look, I opened the door to cut
rates. Not everyone was with me in
following behind."
>> I can give you a sneak peek of the
estimate for September 5th. So next
week, believe it or not, 80K is the
median so far. Those estimates are going
to keep pouring in. That's the issue on
the state side of things. Ian, I want to
finish on the European side of things.
The disruption in in France. The
disruption in France is causing more
market havoc than anything happening
here in America in the last 24 hours.
Ian, looking at what's happening with
French equities, what's happening with
the French bond market? How much fiscal
space do they have? And how long do we
have to wait until the French government
actually makes a move to do something
about spending and taxes?
>> And and that is the problem. And
actually, it's been a continuing
deteriorating story over the last few
months or so. And that's exactly what uh
the prime minister wants to do is to try
to create some of that fiscal space and
improve that fiscal situation that
France is in. Now unfortunately as we
know globally at the moment politically
it's very difficult to make those
decisions. So that's the problem he's
facing at the moment. He wants to bring
that fiscal deficit down. It's north of
5%. He wants to get it to more closer to
four and a half. The rest of uh rest of
the government don't seem to be in
agreement with that. So it looks like we
are going to fail the vote of confidence
back on on the 8th of September. And
then we're going to be talking about
another prime minister possibly or even
a re-election. And it's obviously
causing more turmoil in the equity
market, but it is causing a little bit
of uncertainty in the government market.
We have seen French spreads relative to
Germany widen. We're close to 80 basis
points at the moment. They're
approaching where Italian spreads are.
Would you would you believe it? Um I
think back to where we were at some of
the other tough times from a French
standpoint. We got to about 85 basis
points. That feels like a reasonable
level to start thinking about looking at
opportunities there because ultimately
that's a relative to Germany. And if you
remember the fiscal situation in Germany
is is going to be worse than it was back
back then with all the spending and all
the issuance they're going to have to
do. But it's definitely causing a little
bit of uncertainty in French government.
So I would prefer to own Italy at the
moment.
>> More faith in Maloney than Macron. Ian
Stevia JP Morgan Asset Management. Ian
my words not yours. Don't worry about
it. Euro dollar this morning negative by
410 of 1%. Not seeing that dollar
weakness this morning. seeing some
dollar strength, euro weakness, that
currency pair 11589
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over
to Yahara Arnard for more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. President Donald
Trump said he's prepared for a legal
fight with Fed Governor Lisa Cook after
he attempted to fire her. While Cook's
lawyer vowed to file a lawsuit over
Trump's move, the Federal Reserve says
it would abide by any court verdict and
deferred any decision on Cook's current
working status. Meanwhile, the president
slapped a 50% tariff on Indian goods to
punish the country for buying Russian
oil. The new tariffs took effect at
12:01 a.m. this morning and will affect
more than 55% of goods shipped to the
US. Key exports like electronics and
pharmaceuticals are exempt, sparing
Apple's new factory investments in India
for now. And Taylor Swift is getting her
own Super Bowlsiz ring from Kansas City
Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce. The pop
star announced their engagement on
Instagram yesterday. And news of their
nuptuals sparked a flood of online bets,
including wagers on a possible wedding
date and when the couple might have a
baby. A bit aggressive. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Just a little bit. Just a little bit.
Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, gearing up for a
legal battle.
>> Fed Governor Lisa Cook, her lawyer, has
said that they're going to be filing a
lawsuit challenging this legal action.
What is your response? Are you prepared
for a legal fight?
>> She uh seems to have had an infraction
and she can't have an infraction.
>> That conversation up next with Ishwar
Prasad of Cornell University live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Three days of gains for Nvidia coming
into earnings day. Nvidia this morning
in the pre-market positive again up by
0.6% 6% expectations skyhigh looking for
a 48% jump in earnings from the previous
year. A 44% increase for revenue from
the same quarter a year ago. That bar
skyhigh once again for that stock. The
broader equity market doing okay. Equity
futures positive by close to a tenth of
1% very very close to all-time highs at
a close yesterday. NASDAQ futures this
morning just about unchanged. Under
surveillance this morning we're gearing
up for a legal battle.
Fed Governor Lisa Cook, her lawyer, has
said that they're going to be filing a
lawsuit challenging this legal action.
What is your response? Are you prepared
for a legal fight?
>> She uh seems to have had an infraction
and she can't have an infraction,
especially that infraction because she's
in charge of, if you think about it,
mortgages, and we need people that are
100% above board. And it doesn't seem
like she was.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Fed responding to President Trump's
attempt to fire Governor Lisa Kirk,
saying it would abide by any court
decision on whether he has that
authority. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Tyler, what's the
latest?
>> Yeah, hey John. Good morning. Well, at
this point, it doesn't appear that the
White House is going to let up its
pressure campaign on the central bank
with President Trump saying that he is
prepared for this legal fight, telling
Ann Marie yesterday in the cabinet room
that he will abide by any court
decision. And that's really the big
focus here at this point because we know
that there is a very high legal bar for
the president to remove a Fed official.
In fact, it was actually a protection
that was bolstered by the Supreme Court
earlier this year. You'll recall the
high court had heard a pair of two cases
uh related to other officials that had
been fired at other independent
agencies. And the court ruled that the
president was allowed to oust those
officials, but had actually implemented
essentially a shield for Federal Reserve
officials, citing the Fed, the central
bank's monetary policies, and what they
called the unique structure. Of course,
President Trump here would have to prove
what's known as cause. The thing is that
cause isn't explicitly defined, though
it is uh taken to mean historically to
be malfeasants or a uh ignoring a
neglect of duties related to the job.
Now, of course, we should say it's
important at this point. These are just
aliga allegations against Fed Governor
Lisa Cook. No formal charges have been
brought and her lawyer does say that
they're going to challenge this in
court. John, the next step that we're
watching for, of course, here has to do
whether or not she files for that
injunction, which could mean that she's
reinstated immediately as this court
process plays out, which could mean that
she could be there for that September
FOMC meeting.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. and could be voting for an
interest rate cut based on recent
communication.
>> Which is why this is going to be
incredibly awkward because this is
someone the president is trying to ou
the president has been asking Jay Powell
and the Fed to do for months.
>> Let's extend the conversation. Ishwar
Prasad of Cornell writing the following.
The president has now declared open war
on the US institutional framework which
underpins the dollar's dominance in
global finance as well as other aspects
of US financial supremacy. Ishwar joins
us now for more. Ishwar, welcome back to
the program, sir. Let's just take your
line of thinking. If we have declared
open war on US institutions, where are
you seeing signs of damage?
>> So if one thinks about what are the key
elements of the institutional framework
that as I mentioned have uh underpinned
the dollar's supremacy and foreign
investors trust particularly in the US
financial system. It includes a system
of checks and balances that is
institutionalized the rule of law and
most importantly an independent central
bank. Each of these elements of the US
institutional framework, you know, took
some dings during the first Trump term,
but during the second term, um, Trump is
really taking a hatchet to each of them.
None of the checks and balances either
from Congress or to some extent from the
judicial system seem to be working very
well. The Fed's independence is really
crucial and I should emphasize that it's
operational independence. You know, no
uh central bank can be ultimately free
of political influence because after all
um it has to serve the welfare of the
people. But in the operational decision
making, you know, um all evidence seems
to suggest that leaving the central bank
alone to do its job is the right thing,
makes it most effective and credible.
And that's what Trump is uh attacking.
>> The Fed said that they would abide by
what the court decides. I read that
statement to the president live in the
cabinet room and it came out and and
asked him would you abide by the courts
and he says yes of course he will. So if
the court decides that Lisa Cook can
stay is the damage already done or do
you think that then just bolsters the
view in America that we do have
independent institutions?
Well, at the moment, um I think a great
deal of damage has already been done
because Trump is very clear that he
wants to bend every institution in the
US, including um a statutoily
independent one like the Federal Reserve
to his will in terms of policym
um and the broader elements of policy
that need to line up with his um
desires. And that's not quite um you
know, what um has helped America
maintain its financial supremacy. It's a
sense that everybody including the
government has to play by the rules. You
know, we may not like the rules, but
whether you're a domestic investor, a
foreign investor, or the very government
that sets the rules, you have to play by
the rules. And that is the element that
Trump is uh um attacking. Now even in a
system where you have the rules very
clearly laid out ultimately it is norms
that matter because you cannot really
write a rule that covers every um
eventuality every circumstance of the
world and those norms are certainly
being shattered and this is I think the
real concern um because even if Lisa
Cook does stay on the board um a certain
red line has been crossed has made it
very clear that it is loyalty to him and
his policies that matters much more than
technical compet evidence even in an
institution that is supposed to be
largely run on technocratic grounds.
>> What does happen though if, as the DOJ
said last week, they're potentially
going to investigate this? What happens
if Governor Cook is uh convicted of
mortgage fraud? Does she belong there?
>> So, this is, you know, a really ugly
matter and it is going to get uglier
because we are seeing that uh um these
allegations seem to be swelling up
without much of the evidence being
presented. And of course once the
evidence comes out things will become um
a lot clearer what the intentions were,
what the motives were and as your um
colleague pointed out the definition of
cause is very important here. Um Trump
has argued um that Lisa Cook is one of
the overseers of the mortgage market and
therefore any malfcence or even the
notion of malfeence there is enough um
to be considered cause for firing her.
But the question here is whether the
real cause should be in terms of her
incompetence when it comes to monetary
policy issues or some much deeper issue
of malfeence which certainly has not
been established yet. Um but whatever it
is, it has certainly put the Fed on
notice that every one of its voting
members is going to be subject to very
careful scrutiny which perhaps is not by
itself a bad thing but in a potentially
very ugly way being held to standards.
um that certainly deviate from the past.
>> Ishwa, I agree that this moment is ugly.
I would also suggest in the same way
that you have, it's very difficult to
discuss because we are hearing about the
allegations, but no formal legal
investigation has been opened. At the
same time, Governor Kirk hasn't exactly
denied anything that's been alleged,
which makes it equally as complicated.
each I'm trying to understand how
different this moment is to a moment we
had a number of years ago over a
financial disclosures of Federal Reserve
officials who later resigned themselves
because it became a distraction for the
institution. Why do you believe this
moment is different?
I think um Lisa Cook is making a very
important stand because uh um without
the evidence being clearly revealed um
and in the case of the other fed
officials the um there were allegations
initially but ultimately they resigned
when um the evidence did come out. So at
this stage we do not have um any clear
evidence yet. We have a bunch of
allegations by um one Trump
administration um official and these
have largely been intermediated through
uh the platform um X. Um so I think the
real issue is whether there will be a
process that is allowed to take its
course. So uh rather than firing on the
basis of this allegation, if it would if
it was a situation where the evidence
was clearly laid out so we could all see
it and then uh the ramifications were
teased out and then uh the president
took action, it would be a very
different thing. And of course the
context is very important here. Trump
has been attacking the Fed. He's already
made comments about Lisa Cook not having
um you know done what he thinks she and
other members of the Fed board should
have done which is to cut interest rates
um uh quite aggressively. So there seems
to be a mix of these allegations plus
what he considers malfeasants in terms
of not following his policy wishes. So I
think that's one of the reasons why Lisa
Cook might be making um a stand. And of
course we still need to wait and see how
the evidence plays out. Ishwar Prasad, I
think we've all got to wait and give his
space for due process to carry out.
Ishwar Prasad there of Cornell
University on a very messy situation
down in Washington
>> and it's going to get even louder
because really when Steve Myin goes in
front of the Senate Banking Committee,
this is going to be all the questions.
It is all going to be about Fed
independence and they're going to read
back what the president said yesterday.
Next year we're going to have a majority
at the Fed and I'm looking forward to
that. His words.
>> More still to come on this conversation.
And up next on the program, a lot to
talk about with regards to this stock
right here, Nvidia. Angelo Zeno of CF
will join us with his bullish call on
the stock. Plus, Danny Burgerer has your
morning movers. Eli Liy shares rising as
its weight loss pill nears approval.
[Music]
It's the main event later on this
afternoon. Nvidia, three days of gains
coming into earnings day. Nvidia this
morning positive by 0.65%
8% of the S&P 500 makes up 10% of the
NASDAQ 100. The fate of these markets in
the hands of that earnings report later
on this afternoon. Equity futures right
now in the S&P 500 positive by not even
a tenth of 1% getting closer and closer
to another record high at the opening
bell 3 hours from now. As we count you
down to that opening bell, let's get you
some morning moves and cross back over
to Danny for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Another really strong day for
Lily. At least that's how it's shaping
up in the pre-market. Yesterday, these
shares saw their biggest gains since the
pre the post liberation day bounce back
in April. Now, they're up another 1 and
a.5% today. The rally has been fueled by
a recent trial they did over an obesity
pill, not an injection, a pill where
people lost 9.6% of their body fat,
getting it one step closer to getting
approval, being the first in in that
market. Elsewhere, we're seeing Rocket
Aerospace, the rocket company, those
shares, up 4%, saying it has gotten
clearance from the FAA to yet again
resume rocket launches. They had a
launch earlier in the year that did not
go as planned. It exploded. The FAA had
to investigate. They say that they know
what went wrong and can remedy it, and
now they're looking for a window for
their next space launch. Finally,
looking at some of the software
companies this morning after we had some
earnings after the bell, specifically
from Oaka and MongoDB. Both of those
companies a raise and a beat. They're
both on the smaller side under $5
billion. But Snowflake, that's the big
one in this space. It's rallying in
sympathy up 4.5% and we'll also get
their earnings after the bell today.
John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the next hour. On our
way down this morning, President Donald
Trump gearing up for a legal fight to ou
Fed Governor Lisa Cook. Cook's lawyer
vowing to file a lawsuit to challenge
the action. Trump and the Fed saying
they'll abide by any court decision. So,
if they're going to abide by the court
decision, the next question becomes,
will Lisa Cook have the basic confidence
in the public? And this is what the
Treasury Secretary was getting at
yesterday in the cabinet meeting. He
wasn't asked a question, but they went
around the room and something he said
was that the Fed's independence comes
from a political arrangement between
itself and the American public. Having
the public's trust is the only thing
that gives its credibility. So basically
does it become so untenable for Governor
Cook even if she's able to stay at that
position that maybe she has to actually
think about resigning and that is why
there is concern amongst a lot of
economists about this pressure building
on the independent Fed.
>> We should certainly let the legal
process play out but let's just build on
the independence of the central bank.
Huge proponent of central bank
independence. So let's defend it and
let's go one step further. Let's say
that when there's a hearing oversight
matters but don't call the Fed chair a
dangerous man. Point one. Point two. If
you're on the board, don't make
donations to someone running to be the
president of the United States. I'm
thinking of then Governor Le Brainer,
making a donation to the Hillary Clinton
campaign before then going on to
becoming vice chair and then going to
work for President Biden. Number three,
if you've worked on both the Biden
campaign and the Obama campaign, maybe
don't think about going to the Chicago
Fed. Austin Goulsby, let's be consistent
about this and also go one step further.
Let's make sure there's a really fine
line, really thick, bright red line
between serving for the central bank and
serving for a political party in
Washington DC because that does not help
in any way, shape, or form.
>> No, it doesn't help the markets, which
to the Treasury Secretary's point, they
want to see monetary policy in this
jewel box. These were his words. But the
point you're bringing up, Jonathan, is
that yes, of course, the past week it's
all been about Republicans don't want
independence of the Fed. The president
of the United States doesn't want
independence of the Fed. But we've have
seen Democrats jawbone this Fed as well.
Sometimes it's not as loud coming from
the president of the United States, but
it certainly has been from the likes of
Elizabeth Warren and others in Congress
>> who's written letters to the chairman
asking for lower interest rates. Look,
I'm not drawing equivalents here. I'm
just saying we need to be consistent
about the matter. And if you believe in
central bank independence, let's go even
further with it. Something to think
about. Anyway, let's turn to the latest
on trade. President Trump slapping India
with a 50% tariff, upending a decad's
long push from Washington to forge
closer ties. The tariff set to impact
industries like textiles and jewelry.
While key exports like electronics and
pharmaceuticals are exempt. Some good
news for the Apple CEO.
>> The fine print here is so important. 50%
sounds massive, but then what do you
really care about coming from India?
Really, it's going to be those iPhones
in everyone's pockets. Especially given
the fact that Tim Cook has talked about
the fact that all these US-bound
iPhones. He really wants to see them by
2026. All coming from India. Well, guess
what? They get an exemption. That's key.
>> That's the latest on trade. I want to
turn to the latest on this. What a story
that's played out in the last week.
Cracker Barrel scrapping its new logo
after it sparked backlash from social
media to the White House. The restaurant
bringing back its old logo after critics
said the simplified design stripped the
chain of its history. So, they're back
with the oldtimer. The president has got
involved in this. The White House is now
actually taking basically a full victory
lap that they're the ones that were able
to bring back what was old. I think this
is capitalism at its finest. You hear
from the company, they said they haven't
been able to get Jenz excited about
younger generation coming into Cracker
Barrel. I don't think you've been to
one. I have. It definitely feels like an
old-timer kind of place. So, they went
with more of a modern flat logo. Then,
what happened? And they got all this
push back of people saying, "We want the
full Americana motif of the Cracker
Barrel." And guess what? They realized
this is what the people want. So they
went back to the old version. I just
wonder, Jonathan, if all this is a ploy,
would you and I be sitting here at 6:35
in the morning, talking about Cracker
Barrel, if they didn't have this entire
controversy with their logo?
>> I'm sure investors are hoping you're
right. Unfortunately, you're probably
wrong. And that's the problem. Get rid
of the marketing team. For a long long
time we had a very assertive progressive
consumer which CEOs and seues and
strategies had to cater to. Now for the
last few years you've had a more
assertive conservative consumer. You
should be taking account of that. You
should know you should be testing this.
You should know there's going to be some
backlash once you move away from
heritage at a time where a lot of this
country is longing for heritage history
and Americana. You should know that half
the country wants that. It's a tricky
moment for CEOs. I totally agree with
that. But for goodness sake, hire a new
marketing team cuz every logo on the
planet looks exactly the same given
every rebrand I've seen over the past
decade or so.
>> I totally agree with you. Everything
looks the same, which is actually why I
think people are starting to push back.
And for this one, they felt like, you
know, the straw on the camel's back.
What is interesting though is maybe what
Cracker Barrel is showing a blueprint to
people is that actually listen to your
consumers. When they do push back, be
quick. Apologize. Say we're going back
to the oldtimer. Taylor Budawich, one of
the president's key deputies,
said he had a call last night with the
company. I am just waiting for the
president to make a field trip to a
Cracker Barrel now. And for the company,
this is actually helping them.
>> Cracker Barrel up by about 6 to 7% in
the pre-market. Let's turn back to tech.
Investors looking ahead to Nvidia's
earnings after the closing bell. Angelo
Zeno of CFRA raising his price target to
206 and maintaining a buy rating on the
stock saying we are growing more
confident about sustained demand for
Nvidia's data center business. Angelo
joins us now for more. Angelo, welcome
back to the program, sir. What's your
big focus later on this afternoon?
>> Yeah, so thanks for having me. And you
know, I think for us, I mean, listen,
the demand landscape remains extremely
strong for um Blackwell specifically. We
continue to see that ramp up here. um
second half of the year you're going to
have the ultra launch um as well uh
cloud service providers you know
continue to increase their capex
numbers. So um as far as the the numbers
are concerned looking at about 46
billion here for the quarter growth rate
year of year north of 50%. Um it's
important to note that there's going to
be a reaceleration on the sequential
growth side of things. You're talking
about closer to mid- teens growth um for
the October quarter. It's a high bar,
but nonetheless, the the, you know, the
backlogs that we're seeing from a lot of
these OEMs out there, we think warrant
the fact that, you know, you're going to
see that higher revenue trajectory from
Blackwell going into the second half.
Um, you know, as far as what we're
looking at or we think could potentially
move the the needle for the stock here,
just given that the runup it's already
had, I think there are two items. One,
take a look at the gross margins. Um the
company guided or implied that we're
going to see uh sequential uh
improvement in gross margins here as the
year progresses. We're looking at 72%
this quarter, 73 1.5% next quarter and
you know continue to see further margin
expansion. So we need to see that
actually you know execution on that side
side of things remain intact. And then
um China I think is going to really be
the big story and what Jensen has to say
about the the demand trajectory for
China um for the October quarter and
going into 2026. And I think those are
really going to be the two items which
could potentially move the stock, you
know, significantly one way or the
other.
>> Angela, let's pick up on the China piece
of the story. You've talked in the past
about how the company had moved to drisk
the Chinese story. Can you tell me how
relevant that is now to the Stark?
>> Yeah, I mean listen, you look at the the
July quarter, right? I mean, essentially
zero revenue um in terms of of for China
uh within their their data center
business. So that's important really
because there's only upside as far as
the revenue trajectory for China is
concerned. But that being said, you are
seeing the a lot of uh analysts out
there starting to throw some numbers in
for China and there's a wide range out
there. Our view for the October quarter,
it's probably going to be on the smaller
side of things, maybe 1 to three billion
or so. But again, more importantly is
going to be um the opportunity upside
potential going into 2026. Our view has
been um you know, the H20 at this point
in time is probably um so old that you
know, China can probably do without it
and they're probably looking to push you
know, a black oil chip into that market.
something that Jensen is really trying
to pull push with the administration. So
commentary on that side of things, maybe
where he stands in terms of trying to
get a Blackwell chip going into China, I
think is going to be really important to
see that momentum and revenue trajectory
really start to ramp up in that region.
>> Even if China was able to get the
Blackwell chip, does it matter? The FT
this morning is saying that China chip
makers look to triple output of AI chips
next year. How far advanced is the US
compared to China?
>> I you know I I think when you when you
think about how advanced I mean that
they're they're multiple generations
ahead. We think when you look at you
know Nvidia's most advanced chip. But
that said I think it has a lot more to
do with just the the actual um chip
itself and more about the ecosystem um
and the ties that that Nvidia has with
the developers out in China. So I think
that's a critical aspect of all this and
um you know again I think it's one of
those if you listen to the Alibaba's by
dus of the world and Alibaba reports
later this week um you know I I think
you'll you'll hear that you know it's
it's important for them to have access
to um Nvidia's ecosystem their their uh
software and capabilities. So um Huawei
is definitely a formable formidable
threat out there. I think the demand
landscape actually in China is going to
continue to be very robust as well. So
there's no surprise um that you're going
to see significant demand um not only
from the the domestic industry but we
think also um from Nvidia if they can
kind of get again their more advanced uh
chips relative to the H20 at least.
>> Do you basically expect if they're able
to get more of those advanced chips over
to China that the US government is going
to demand a cut?
I mean at this point in time probably um
you know we do expect the US government
to continue to ask for the cut that you
know they they previously alluded to
which is that 15% um you know cut. So um
I wouldn't expect any change from that
at least at this point in time.
>> Angela, can we just finish on something
that I think is going to become a bigger
story 12 months out might not be now and
perhaps you haven't developed firm
thoughts on the matter but the price of
electricity. Angela, this is going to
become potentially a massive political
issue and the push back you could see
from the electorate against the buildout
of data centers and the thirst for
electricity and the increase of price in
energy that we could see in this country
and elsewhere could be absolutely
massive. Angelo, as a risk factor, is
that something you've begun to thought
about, think about, and how are those
thoughts developing if they are?
>> I mean, are we talking about kind of the
the price of electricity that's going to
put get pushed to the consumer? are we
talking about kind of the price of
electricity that you know these
hyperscalers are going to have to pay
for because um you know the way I look
at this is um you know they're being
there are contracts being put into place
at this point in time by the
hyperscalers um and they're willing to
to pay um you know in excess of you know
whatever um the existing price is in
order to kind of make sure that there is
um you know enough uh capacity out there
to meet the the growing needs for AI.
But no, to your point, absolutely. I
think there's um there's a huge risk out
there in terms of the availability that
of supply um for um to meet the needs of
a AI if kind of the explosion is to the
extent that some of these companies um
are alluding to, it's probably going to
be the biggest bottleneck. Um you know,
we think for the the adoption of AI here
as we kind of look out over the next 3
to 5 years. So, um I think it's it's one
of these fluid stories out there, but um
you know, typically what I've learned
is, you know, when you have issues like
this, over time, the tech industry is
able to find solutions to it. Uh but
yeah, it is definitely a an an issue out
there that we're going to have to keep
an eye on and it's probably going to be
problematic um you know, as we kind of
look out maybe maybe a little bit more
further than 12 months out from now, but
yeah, over the next 3 to 5 years
definitely an issue.
>> Well, appreciate you weighing in
regardless. Thanks, Angelo. Appreciate
it. Thank you, sir. Angela Zena there of
CFR because the consumer does not have a
Mark Zuckerberg sized balance sheet.
That's for sure.
>> I'm glad you brought this up because did
you see yesterday at the cabinet meeting
the president said he got this photo
they held up from Mark Zuckerberg and
what it was was an AI data center
they're building in Louisiana and it's
the size of Manhattan basically. So you
saw how the data center was just
basically superimposed on Manhattan and
Trump talked about this the energy
demand that is going to be needed for
this and already this is a conversation
in Washington because congressmen and
women are really concerned about
individuals and small businesses having
to pay higher electricity prices.
>> Nvidia in the pre-market higher by about
3/4 of 1%. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahra. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Aside from the Lisa Cook drama,
we're learning President Trump is
stepping up his efforts to exert more
control over the central bank. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the Trump
administration is reviewing options for
exerting more influence over the Fed's
12 regional banks that would potentially
extend its reach beyond personnel
appointments in Washington. Meanwhile,
French Prime Minister Francois Bau is
under pressure as opposition parties
unite against him. The far-right
national rally, leftist France unbowed,
and the socialist party all plan to vote
against Baiou in next month's confidence
vote, potentially forcing his government
to resign. And the Justice Department is
widening its probe of United Health.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the DOJ's criminal division is looking
into the company's prescription
management services as well as how it
reimburses its own doctors. The
previously unreported areas of the probe
show the scrutiny goes beyond an inquiry
into possible Medicare fraud. That's
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, slapping tariffs on India.
>> I don't want to make a trade deal. No,
no, no. We want to make trade deal.
You're going to put tariffs on you that
was so high. I don't give a damn. Your
head's going to spare.
>> That conversation up next with the
former Trump trade official Kate
Kucawitz live from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg.
[Music]
bouncing back in yesterday's session,
closing within 0.1% of all-time highs on
the S&P 500. Futures this morning just
about positive. Likewise on the NASDAQ
100 and the Savanas this morning
slapping tariffs on India.
>> I said I don't want to make a trade
deal. No, no, no. we want to make trade
deal. I said, "No, no, I don't want to
make a trade deal with you." I said,
"Call me back tomorrow, but we're not
going to do any deals with you or we're
going to put tariffs on you that are so
high. You're going to put tariffs on you
that were so high I don't give a damn.
Your head's going to spare."
>> Here's the latest this morning. Trade in
focus with the White House hitting India
with a 50% tariff as the dimminimous
exemption is set to end on Friday. The
former Trump White House trade official
Kate Kukowitz writing the following. The
expanded tariffs further weakened the
prospects for a near-term US India trade
deal with bilateral talks stalled. Kate
joins us now for more. Kate, welcome
back to the program. I think we have to
start from the very top blurring the
lines between economics and national
security objectives. Can you just build
on that and why India is so important
right now?
>> Yeah, the situation with India is at a
place I think none of us predicted early
in the president's term. you know, they
had risen out of the gate really as one
of the first countries with which we
expected a trade deal, but these
national security issues, particularly
the ongoing situation with Russia and
Ukraine, have really elevated them as a
problem in the president's mind. And now
we see tariffs reaching the levels of
China, almost the highest of any country
at at present.
>> Okay, as you know, China still buys
Russian energy. The Europeans still buy
Russian gas. Does consistency matter
here?
Well, apparently not. Uh the president
has made clear, of course, that that
he'll go after some of these other
nations with this new executive order
that targets buyers of Russian oil, but
it's very clear only one country has
received the additional penalties, and
that's India. So, hard to say that
there's consistency here. So, where do
the talks stand now? We know that
they're basically on hold. How quickly
could these two trading partners
coalesce and get to an agreement? Well,
as we've seen with with other previously
stuck agreements, I mean, I think
anything can happen if you get the two
leaders together. What we've seen so
far, however, is that you know, India's
prime minister because he has his own
domestic political challenges of course
is somewhat reluctant to get on the
phone with President Trump as you all
know that can be quite uncertain as to
what the president can ask when he gets
on the phone with you. Uh, but I think
it could get unstuck if the two men get
together and find a pathway forward.
That's what we've seen happen with
President Trump and I think it could
happen here with India.
>> Is it going to potentially hurt India's
chances given the fact that Prime
Minister Modi is set to have a meeting
and meet Xi Jinping in the next couple
of days?
>> Well, I think that Prime Minister Modi
is trying to to flex a little bit here
and show that he has other options. I'm
not sure it will impact President
Trump's view of this. I think this still
has to be an issue resolved between the
United States and India. And it doesn't
matter if the Indians bring the Chinese
alongside. It is hard to ignore,
however, that the highest tariff rates
at present really are on countries
aligned with China and that's China,
India, and Brazil, a group of nations
the president has repeatedly targeted.
When it comes to the exemptions though,
this is really key. The likes of Apple,
which put a lot of time and effort into
moving their supply chain out of China
into India. Do you think that exemption
stays?
Well, that exemption is not really
related to India so much as it is to the
president's impending action on
semiconductors and their derivatives
like the products Apple makes. So that
that exception is really in place only
until the president makes that move on
on semiconductors which you know the
White House has said is imminent. But
you raise a very important point which
is in the first president in President
Trump's first administration a lot of
companies moved from China and they
moved to India. So, you know, we could
see some very dramatic consequences for
those that have done their manufacturing
there.
>> And Marie, just to build on some of
that, Mexico, Canada, Kate, next year,
how crucial are those negotiations going
to be?
>> They're really important. The US,
Mexico, Canada agreement, of course, is
coming up under review. This was an
agreement renegotiated by the first
Trump administration. It's an agreement
he's called the greatest trade deal ever
negotiated. But the truth is the North
American supply chain for American
manufacturers is critical. It is crucial
in this global competition with China
with India and I think it will be very
important to see that reshort
essentially and and restabilized. Well,
when it comes to the goods that are
going between these borders, 90% are
USMCA compliant. They are also getting
this exemption when it comes to the
tariff rates. What does the Trump
administration want to see build upon
their USMCA that they themselves struck
when it comes to renegotiating that
exact trade deal?
>> Well, I think what we've seen in a
number of the trade frameworks is what
we're going to see in the USMCA
negotiations, and that's to uh get rid
of what we consider transhipped goods.
And again, this is to ensure that
Chinese inputs, Chinese goods are not
somehow making their way into the United
States through our North American
partners. So when the USMCA was
renegotiated, we did see tightened rules
to ensure that all cars that benefit
from USMCA are almost entirely North
American content, about 75%. I think the
president will push Mexico and Canada
for similar commitments on a range of
goods to ensure that anything benefiting
from this duty-free treatment is
actually a product of North America.
>> Okay, we're still trying to figure out
if some of these tariffs actually stand
up to legal scrutiny. And at the cabinet
meeting yesterday, the Treasury
Secretary talked about customs revenue
of north of $500 billion a year. Are
these tariffs and the revenue they're
generating now too big to strike down?
>> Well, it's a great question. I think we
are nearing that and certainly the
president's rhetoric, the president of
his cabinet really justifying the value
of this these tariffs and what they're
doing for the the deficit in the United
States indicate that by and large they
are here to stay. We have action after
action piling up which threaten to raise
the tariff level. I think it's going to
be very challenging in a wholesale
fashion to see these tariffs coming down
anytime soon.
>> Okay, appreciate your time. As always,
the former Trump trade official Kuwitz
there on the situation with global trade
and what's going to happen with the
legal issues in the days to come.
>> Right. What did Henrietta Trey say? She
is waiting for the courts to what she
thinks strike down AIPA, but then
they're going to have other avenues to
keep tariff rates. You mentioned the
Treasury Secretary yesterday, not only
did you talk about the tariffs coming
in, he even though he doesn't like the
CBO, he says once in a while they have
good analysis. The CBO recently said
that basically the tariff policies could
reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over
the next decade. And the Treasury
Secretary said yesterday he actually
think that number is going to go up.
>> Are they going to have consequences?
That will for the bond market. The
tenure this morning 427. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Drew Mattis
of Metife, Mark Shaw, the former chief
of staff to former VP Mike Pence,
Jeffrey Girtz of the Center for a New
American Security, and Krishna Mani of
Lafayette College. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning to all.
The second era of Bloomberg surveillance
just around a corner.
[Music]
The Federal Reserve is in an incredibly
difficult position here. This is a real
assault on the Federal Reserve's
independence.
>> The Fed is under a lot of pressure in
terms of the future policy path.
>> I expect to see a little bit more done
to control the long end of the yield
curve this time.
>> What you're seeing in the long end is
certainly somewhat worrisome.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 adding just a
little bit of weight to yesterday's
rally. Very close to alltime highs.
Futures this morning very much unchanged
on the S&P and the Nasdaq 100. In the
bond market, 2-year, 10-year, 30-year
things just settling down after all the
drama surrounding the Federal Reserve in
the past 24 hours. Bond yields up by a
mere basis point at the long end of the
curve down a couple of the front end. in
the 2-year 36597
30s49275.
Your week ahead is shaping up as
follows. Later in the week, the main
data point core PCE before we get there
though after the closing bout. The data
point maybe of the week beyond PCE
Nvidia earnings tech giant Nvidia
reporting after the closing bout.
>> Highly anticipated to have this earnings
report after the bell today. When it
comes to Nvidia, of course, on one side
we have seen already what their biggest
customers are saying. They're spending
big. We're talking eyewatering numbers
when it comes to AI and that's 40% of
their revenue, Jonathan. But then on the
downside, people really want to know and
get a clear picture of what is going on
with Nvidia and their sales to China.
There's been this almost off and on
again sales momentum given the policy in
Washington DC and no one really has a
clear understanding of actually how much
they are still selling into that market.
>> You can't sell them. You can sell them
but you need to give us a cut of the
revenue. That's the message from the
White House recently. The Chinese, we
want them. now we don't want them. Do
the Chinese even want them in the
country right now? That's part of the
debate in a way that maybe it wasn't in
the last few months.
>> Which is why there was this report that
what you saw from Nvidia is going back
to their suppliers for components for
the H20 chip and chip and saying stop
making them right now. And that was just
days after we exclusively reported that
firms in Beijing, the CCP basically
telling companies to shrug off these
chips. But Angela made a really good
point earlier and that's what's going to
happen with the Blackwell. Jensen Wang
has done a very good job as the CEO of a
company pushing this administration to
seeing his world view. Will they do so
with these higher advanced
semiconductors as well?
>> Let's talk in the pre-market higher by
0.6%. This rally is not all about big
tech. It's about other parts of the
market, too. The S&P 500 within 0.1% of
all-time highs. Banks, the KBW bank
index at a record. Home builders up so
far. this month by 15%. Delta, United
Airlines up by double digits for the
month of August. This economy is not
looking great at the moment, but this
market is pricing in a rebound.
>> Market's pricing in the rebound. They're
also pricing in a rate cut when it comes
to September. And that is why I think
the PCE report is going to be so
interesting. Well, actually, I thought
it was going to be so interesting,
Jonathan, before as you continuously
mentioned. Jay Powell basically told us
all to look through any hot CPI prints
because there's going to be an on andoff
effect when it comes to the tariffs and
how they're going to impact inflation.
Everything is going to come down to this
jobs market report. But right now, the
market's pricing in a Fed rate cut in
September.
>> Payrolls a week Friday. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Drew Mattis of
MedLife ahead of earnings from Nvidia.
We'll speak to Mark Short, the former
chief of staff, to the former VP Mike
Pence on the growing turmoil at the
Federal Reserve and Jeffrey Girtz of the
Center for a New American Security as
the White House looks to take stakes in
more US companies. We begin this hour
with stocks near all-time highs ahead of
earnings from Nvidia. Drew Mattis of
Metife writing, "There is too much
short-term faith in AI. The real impact
of AI will take place over the next
decade, not over the next year." Drew
joins us now for more. Drew, welcome,
sir. Just build on some of that if you
can. Do you think this market is super
offside then?
>> Well, no. I think the investment for AI
has to take place now. But when I think
we're when I think about productivity
and I think about cost savings, you
know, is that going to come from
existing companies or is that going to
come from companies that are built
within an AI ecosystem? Uh because
they're going to look very different
than the companies we have today. And
and I think those are the companies that
are really going to drive the
productivity experience u you know for
markets. And then on on the kind of
social side, it's really going to be a
big boost to educational quality. Um,
and you can use AI to basically create
individualized tutors for students.
Those students will benefit from that.
And what we're going to end up with is a
surge in labor quality because
educational quality is going to be going
higher in the United States.
>> Drew, that's the upside. Let's discuss
the constraints. Are we already starting
to see them manifest materialize in
energy prices in electricity and how do
you think that's going to ramp up in the
years to come?
>> Well, I think that there's you know a
lot of interesting things going on in
energy including kind of you know a
movement towards kind of uh more
predictable supplies and and I think
that you know what we're seeing is
actually kind of a confluence of factors
some of which are political and some of
which are are being driven by AI. Um you
know it's everything has consequences
right? I mean, you know, you switched
from, you know, horses to automobiles
and that created a whole bunch of
changes in jobs. It created changes in
energy supplies. There were all kinds of
people who who got put out of work and
all kinds of people who uh entered jobs
that didn't exist a few years before. uh
and I I think AI is clearly going to be
something like that where people are
actually forced to kind of re-evaluate
and there's there's of course going to
be losses within that and managing those
losses is really going to be the
challenge for the government uh and for
companies as we move forward.
>> Well, to John's point on electricity, I
mean, how much higher do you think
energy demand as well as price might
actually go?
Well, I mean, it's an open question
because I I think, you know, if you've I
mean, anyone who lives in in northern
New Jersey sees that, you know, um you
know, the brownouts, there's, you know,
kind of issues with electricity on a
day-to-day basis. Uh that, you know, if
you think back 10 years ago, it just
wasn't happening, right? And so, I I
don't know exactly how that gets
resolved. uh but I do know it it has to
get resolved and it's it's worth the
focus of the government to make sure
that there is are sustainable supplies
of energy and I mean sustainable in the
way that maybe predictable is a better
way right you know you shouldn't be
having brownouts in in the United States
of America it just shouldn't happen
>> when you talk about the short-term faith
in AI and actually really this is a
long-term project what companies do you
think are going to be the ones that are
doing the work now that's going to pay
off in the next decade
Well, as I said, I'm more focused on
kind of what kind of companies come
after the companies that we currently
have, right? And what does the future of
of kind of corporate America look like?
If you were to build a company from
scratch today, how would you build it
differently than a company that that's
been around for a few decades? And I
think the answer is you'd probably build
it very differently because you'd have a
very different structure with regard to
the number of employees. should have a
how those employees interact with each
other. Um and and the real challenge for
kind of companies today is going to be
how do we adapt to stay in front of that
curve.
>> Drew, I want to build on the rest of the
equity market. It's not all about tech.
We've seen a rebound of small caps, a
bounce in the banks, the home builders.
Seen the same thing with the airlines as
well so far this month. Drew, do you
think the economic data in the months to
come is going to back that up?
Uh, I don't I I actually think that, you
know, I think the labor market is in the
process of weakening and will continue
to weaken. Um, I think a few Fed rate
cuts because the economy is weakening is
not usually a good thing, right? What
you want the Fed to be able to cut for
is because productivity is accelerating
and there's a limited danger of
inflation. And while we're not really so
worried about the inflation story, even
if we expect it to be a little high, um,
the growth story just isn't that great.
you know, who who actually are going to
be buying these things, who's going to
be doing these things, are people going
to feel confident going out and spending
and I think the answer is increasingly
that, you know, people are trying to
find ways to cut back in order to
basically, you know, pay for higher
energy costs, for example.
>> Drew, to build on that, and I think this
is so important. We often say this, not
all rate cuts are created equally. Some
are because of a softer labor market,
others because inflation is contained,
and we certainly don't have the latter
at the moment. So, let's sit on the
former. Drew, if you believe that, what
do you think the correlation is going to
look like between stocks and bonds over
the next quarter?
>> I mean, I I actually think that the long
end of the curve is kind of stuck where
it is and uh any kind of cuts are going
to come with a steepening. Uh so, you
know, it's going to be a bull
steepening, but it's going to be a
steepening and but I do think the long
end is is pretty much locked where it is
today. You know, maybe you get down to
four. Um, but you know, by and large, I
think 10-year yields are are going to be
where they are right now, plus or minus
25 basis points.
>> Drew, are you surprised that we haven't
seen a massive move in terms of markets
overall when it comes to the drama
surrounding the Federal Reserve and this
administration?
>> Uh, I I'm not because I think people are
kind of wanting to see this play out.
Um, I I also think, you know, look, for
the Fed to be independent, they have to
be above reproach. Um, and now we don't
know what happened. Um, but if
you know the Treasury Secretary was
exactly correct, right? It's an
agreement between the Fed and and the
American people to basically say, "Look,
we trust you to manage your business and
to do it in a way that's appropriate."
Um, and you know, if that's not if if
that's not being held up to, then of
course there's going to be a
re-examination of that. And I I think
you know all the weeping and wailing uh
and nashing of teeth about this being an
attack on the Federal Reserve. I don't
see it as being attack on the Federal
Reserve. I I see it as being uh if you
separate it from the person making the
comments, would you still have the same
visceral response? And I think the
answer would be no. You'd be thinking
more about the allegation rather than
about who made the allegation and what
it might mean going forward. The the
main key point is if you want the
Federal Reserve to be credible, the the
people on the Federal Reserve have to be
above reproach. And if that's not
happening, then Federal Reserve
independence doesn't matter anyway.
>> So Drew, we've had this dance between
politics in Washington and the Federal
Reserve for a long, long time. It's not
new. We've seen people go from the
Federal Reserve to the White House, from
the White House to the Federal Reserve.
Do we have to be consistent about that?
I think we should be. Should we start to
establish rules about the ability to
switch from one to the other down in
Washington?
>> Uh I I think there should be a lot more
rules about kind of once you're on
there, you know, I think we've reached a
period where people think, you know,
they don't really think about what
they've done. You know, I I think if you
think about the Federal Reserve, you can
think about it like, you know, hey, you
know what? I'm going into
uh you know this is going to come across
wrong but like you know I I'm entering a
new um regime. I'm entering, you know,
the priesthood, for example, of finance.
And, you know, that means that I have to
be a above reproach, b I have to kind of
sever old ties. Uh, and c I have to
really think about when I'm moving into
and out of that organization, you know,
am I actually still I am still
representing that organization. I'm
representing that organization for the
rest of my life, right? So, there has to
be this mindset in people. And I think
as a society actually we've moved away
from a mindset of kind of personal
responsibility and credibility. Um and
it's hurting us as a country and I think
you know what we're seeing it reflected
in now is the political sphere.
>> Drew appreciate your time. Dream Mattis
of Metife. Some thoughtful stuff on the
Federal Reserve. Slightly contrarian
based on what we've heard on this
program over the last 24 hours.
Definitely contrarian, especially given
the fact of the last 24 hours, I spoke
to the former Fed vice chair, Leil
Brainer, who really feels like this
attack on Governor Cook and the question
about her mortgage fraud is an attack on
the entire institution. But actually, I
think the market is lining up to where
he is because the reaction has basically
been we need to just wait and see how
the courts decide. And when it comes to
the courts, I just go back to what the
Supreme Court said in May, which is that
the Federal Reserve is a quasi private
entity. Basically inoculating it,
Jonathan, from any sort of political
attacks that can come down upon it or
potentially political maneuvers.
>> This is going to take months and months
to figure out. In the meantime, the
market's doing okay. Equity futures just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. With an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief, here's Yahi with more.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. As you all were discussing,
President Donald Trump said he's
prepared for a legal fight with Fed
Governor Lisa Cook after he attempted to
fire her. While Cook's lawyer vowed to
file a lawsuit over Trump's move, the
Fed said it would abide by any court
verdict and deferred any decision on
Cook's current working status.
Meanwhile, Ukraine's president says
China's Xiinping sent him Independence
Day greetings, the first known contact
in more than two years. President
Vladimir Zalinski shared the note on
social media saying he appreciated she's
outreach and highlighted mutual
interests in advancing bilateral ties.
The message comes just days before
Vladimir Putin travels to Beijing for a
major summit. And Nikon shares surged in
Tokyo after Rayban maker Lotica said
it's considering increasing its stake in
the Japanese optical equipment
manufacturer. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the Franco Italian company is
considering boosting its stake to 20%.
That is more than double its current
holdings. Deliberations are ongoing and
there is no guaranteed transaction.
That's your Bloomberg grief. John
>> Yhira. Appreciate it. More from Yahra in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, gearing up for a legal battle.
>> Fed Governor Lisa Cook, her lawyer has
said that they're going to be filing a
lawsuit challenging this legal action.
What is your response? Are you prepared
for a legal fight? She uh seems to have
had an infraction and she can't have an
infraction.
>> Up next on the program, Mark Shaw, the
former chief of staff to the former vice
president Mike Pence joins us in just a
moment from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
Nvidia in focus after the close later on
this afternoon. That stock in the
pre-market higher by 0.7% following
three days of gains coming into
Wednesday. This from Danives of Wedbush.
The streak continues to underestimate
the demand curve for the AI revolution
being led by guess who by Nvidia. This
market is doing okay. It's very close to
all-time highs, drowning out the drama
down in Washington DC, shutting down the
noise. Futures positive by around about
a tenth of 1% on the S&P so far this
morning. Under surface this morning,
gearing up for a legal battle.
>> Fed Governor Lisa Cook, her lawyer has
said that they're going to be filing a
lawsuit challenging this legal action.
What is your response? Are you prepared
for a legal fight? She uh seems to have
had an infraction and she can't have an
infraction especially that infraction
because she's in charge of if you think
about it mortgages and we need people
that are 100% above board and it doesn't
seem like she was.
>> So here's the latest sources telling us
here at Bloomberg that the Trump
administration is looking to exert more
influence over the Federal Reserve's
regional bank president. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall has more. Hey Tyler.
>> Yeah. Hey John. Well, a person familiar
tells us that the White House is saying
that this wouldn't necessarily be about
trying to make the central bank more
dovish, but rather about heightening
scrutiny over the vetting process of
regional bank presidents, considering
that they don't go through a Senate
confirmation. and it's putting
heightened attention on what's a once in
every five-year exercise, which just
happens to be happening this February
when the Fed Board of Governors will
look to authorize the current roster of
Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents. And the concern here being
that if the White House were to secure a
majority on the Fed board of governors,
four out of the seven seats being Trump
appointees, then officials could
potentially use this as another tool in
their pressure campaign by putting
heightened scrutiny on this reappoint
process. Now, whether or not this
actually happens remains to be seen, but
one thing that's becoming increasingly
clear in the reporting is that this
White House doesn't appear to be showing
any intentions that it's going to let up
its pressure campaign on the central
bank, which as you've been covering, the
president saying that he's prepared for
this expected legal fight over his
decision to oust Fed Governor Lisa Cook,
telling Ann Marie yesterday in the
cabinet room that he's prepared to abide
by any decision. Because of course the
next steps we're waiting for is how this
legal fight is going to progress and
when uh Lisa Cook could potentially file
file for an injunction which would uh
immediately reinstate her into the
position uh as a Fed governor as this
essentially works its way through the
legal system. John, of course, President
Trump is elevating allegations of
mortgage occupancy fraud against Cook,
but important to note that at this point
they are only allegations and no formal
charges have been brought. Tyler Kendall
with the latest in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. Here in New York City, Mark
Shaw, the former chief of staff to the
former vice president Mike Pence joins
us now for more. Mark, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you for being here. A much more
interventionist White House over the
past week and maybe the last number of
months as well.
>> Can you just weigh in? How are you
framing things at the moment? Well, on
on this particular topic, I actually
think there is probably broader support
among a lot of small government people
who say, you know what, the notion of of
a Fed truly being independent was a nice
notion when before it had $7 trillion of
assets on its books. And and so you have
a lot of unelected people with 14-year
terms have enormous influence over the
economy. Having said that, I think
there's probably a desire also that if
there was actually effort to change it,
it would be more above board than coming
up with sort of these fraudulent charges
against the board governor because
there's probably plenty of political
appointees administration of multiple
mortgages too and who said they're both
their primary residents. So, I'm sure
there's a double standard here and I and
I wish there was a more intellectual
appeal about the Fed's role as opposed
to come with bogus charges.
>> I just want to pick up on the language,
a difference between charges of fraud
and fraudulent charges. Which one do you
think it is? I I think these are bogus
charges. I mean,
>> what makes you believe that?
>> Well, I don't know how many how many
homes she has or if she listed both as
private, but is that really a reason
you're going to remove somebody as as a
board governor? And I it's again, I
believe there's probably plenty of
people in the administration who have
done the same on their mortgage files.
>> Well, lots of reporting over this summer
about Ken Paxton, who's the attorney
general of Texas, who's running to be
the senator.
>> Great point.
>> And do you think it's litmus test now
for the president? He's going to decide
whether or not he's going to back Ken
Paxton because he has three residences
listed as a primary.
>> You know, he's very flexible on these
things. I I think this is this is more
about his effort to exert control over
the Fed because I think they're
concerned that their trade agenda is is
causing great weakness in the labor
market and they want rates lower. And to
be fair, this is what the president has
always wanted is lower rates. Even when
he had the option to appoint Jerome
Powell in the first administration,
there were three options between Kevin
Worsh, John Taylor, and Jerome Powell.
And the president asked who's going to
make rates lower. And that's one of the
ironies is is that he chose the person
who Steve Minutuchin told him is going
to keep rates lower, but obviously he
wants it even lower than they are now.
>> How difficult is next week going to be
if the Senate Banking Committee begins
their hearing of Steve Meyer. You look
at some of the Republicans on that
committee. Are we going to see push back
not just from the likes of Elizabeth
Warren, but also like Tom Telis?
>> We haven't seen it yet, Amarie. So, I'm
not so confident there's going to be
significant push back on on his
appointment. I I and I look, I again, I
think this is about an effort to exert
control and have a majority so he can
lower rates faster, but again, I think
it's reflective of concern about where
the labor market's going.
>> I remember Steven Moore nominated for a
seat on the Federal Reserve.
>> The Senate was Republican at the time
and he didn't make it and there was push
back. What's the difference between that
first term for the president and this
second term?
>> Yeah. Yeah, great question because I
think this is much broader than the
Federal Reserve. I think it's about all
of his nominations. I think that, you
know, you go to uh his cabinet and I
think it'd be hard to envision that RFK
would have gotten confirmed in a
previous Republican controlled Senate.
Um I I think this is basically a
reflection that Republicans are very
worried about the president primary him.
He has shown his ability to engage in
primaries and exert that control and
there's just an enormous fear factor and
he's using that with great leverage
amongst Senate Republicans.
>> Has the party changed?
>> The party's absolutely changed, John. I
mean, I think the party has certainly
become far more populous. I think, you
know, when you see basically the uh the
federal government looking to seize
means of production and the biggest
cheerleaders are Elizabeth Warren and
Bernie Sanders and there's not a
Republican speaking out about the
government taking over 10% of Intel on
the heels of saying, you know, selling
we have export controls, we don't want
to sell these chips to China. Oh, but if
you allow us to take 15% of the profits
of Nvidia, it's okay. And on the heels
of saying we're gonna take golden shares
of Nipon Steel, US Steel, it's like that
this is this is clearly moving a
direction where the populism and the
progressive merge and there's been total
silence among Senate Republicans
>> and Senate Republicans with their
silence. You say potentially though
they're interested in revamping the
Federal Reserve because they're in favor
of small government. Nothing you just
listed in terms of taking shares of
companies is small government. Emry
there. This that's I think one of the
shocking parts is that I do believe that
the first Trump administration was
predominantly small government. It was
deregulatory. It reduced taxes and I
feel like the second administration is
exerting its influence in all sectors of
the economy and looking to exert its
muscle and I think it's a very different
agenda
>> to be more constructive on what they're
doing in terms of say Intel. There's
been a lot of criticism that that
they're mirroring what China does or
this is state capitalism like Europeans
did in the 1960s. What do you actually
think Trump is thinking? Is this about
building a sovereign wealth fund? What
is actually the strategy?
>> I I I think that he kind of rejected the
sovereign wealth fund the other day, but
I do think it's concerning that, you
know, that the the trajectory there is
basically Saudi Arabia, China, Iran,
Russia, those are the ones with
sovereign wealth funds. I certainly hope
that's not where we're going. I do think
it's more in his mind simply about
leverage and where he can have leverage.
But again, the base of it was two weeks
before he more or less insinuated the
Intel CEO is a Chinese spy and then
basically allowing that basically
saying, "Okay, well, we're not so
worried about the national security
anymore as long as we can have 10%."
It's like, what's what's the
justification? And I feel like when you
do this, you crowd out private
investors. I don't think this would be
good for either side. I think you're
going to see Intel shock, Intel stock
probably decline because what private
investor wants to engage if they feel
like the federal government can just
come in and take 10% or more? the
sovereign wealth funds, the ships act.
That's the investment vehicle. I didn't
see that coming, but that's where this
is going, apparently.
>> Well, yeah, potentially. I mean, and
it's also not just the examples Mark
Short brought up. You also had the DoD
recently take a stake in a company as
well, and Howard Lutnik is basically
saying that this might be potentially
direction of travel for other defense
companies.
>> Mark, this was great. It's good to see
you for breaking it down. the
traditional Republican view of what's
playing out down in Washington DC.
>> It isn't a traditional Republican view
when it comes to what is going on with
the this White House and corporate
America. They are taking a much more
interventionist approach which usually
really puts the hair up on the backs of
most Republicans.
>> That conversation will continue up next
on the program. We'll catch up with
Jeffrey Gz of the Center for a New
American Security. Plus, Danny's back
with your morning movers as shares of
cos are soaring following at earning
speed. That stock is up by 17%. From New
York City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities just about positive on the S&P
500. Big day coming up. Earnings from
Nvidia after the closing bow. Futures
positive by 0.05% 05% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ 100 up by close to a tenth of 1%
and after some decent outperformance on
the Russell in the last 24 hours. A bit
softer there. We're down by about a
tenth of 1%. With two hours until the
opening bell, let's get you some morning
movers. We can do that with some single
names with Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Some retailer earnings coming
in. JM Smucker falling in the pre-market
down of four four and a quarter% this
morning. It was a miss on their
earnings. Basically all the categories
looking weaker. everything from their
coffee brands to pet snacks and human
snacks. You know it's bad when you're
not giving your pets as many treats. The
CEO there saying that it's a dynamic
external environment. Of course, they're
also dealing things with things like
tariffs on Brazil, which in particular
would be hurting their coffee business.
However, positive results when it came
to Kohl's reporting this morning.
They've been in the middle of a
turnaround effort. So maybe this is
giving some credence. It is a beat and a
raise for them. 17 and a3% is a surge
we're seeing. And perhaps key for one of
these consumerf facing companies that is
also dealing with tariffs is the fact
that they were able to raise their
margin outlook for the entirety of the
year. Now, finally wrapping things up
with PayPal. Those shares are falling
this morning down 2.4%. A German outlet
reporting that there appeared to be some
security issues with PayPal, some sort
of system failure. That that system
looks at fraudulent payments. So, German
banks have been blocking direct debit
payments from PayPal over fears over
what that security system failure might
mean. So, again, those shares down in
the pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Appreciate it. More from Danny in the
next hour. On our radar this morning,
President Donald Trump hitting India
with 50% tariffs as punishment for
buying Russian crude. The move putting a
strain on ties with the prime minister
and Render Modi. Key exports like
electronics and pharmaceuticals are
exempt.
>> And that's really the key here. these
ideas like iPhones which basically Tim
Cook did a lot of work moving logistics
from China to India. He says by 2026 he
wants all the US-bound iPhones to be
coming from India. There was this
concern are they going to hit with this
massive high tariff. Kate Kucowitz
though was saying that this really has
less to do about India and more to do
about the president waiting to go
forward with his semiconductor tariff
rates. So potentially this story could
continue in what might actually be
exempt or not depending on how they're
going to view the chip sector and what
tariff rate that's going to be set at.
>> So India of course has massive barriers
to entry to export into the country.
That's been a problem for a while. They
would say we're an emerging market. We
need to protect infant industries.
That's becoming more and more
controversial as that country grows
richer and richer. The justification for
this though I think they've got some
reason to be a little bit irked with
this situation. They're not the only
ones buying Russian crude. Chinese are
as well. Europeans are back. Russian
energy for goodness sake still and yes
that number has dropped away compared to
what it used to be sure but that's still
a massive massive problem and a question
of consistency will be a question that's
asked from I imagine trade partners
>> right and this question has been foot
put forward to the administration
because the number one buyer of Russian
energy is China and that is the reason
why Putin is able to continue funding
this war on Ukraine. When you ask the
administration about it, what they will
say is, well, China actually has
diversified and their numbers haven't
really changed, maybe come down a little
bit even from Russia. Even though the
number one buyer, they are diversified.
They're saying India was opportunistic
and took advantage of the situation.
Also, this is a problem though for Modi
because this means he's having a very
tense relationship with the president of
United States. This was someone that
everyone thought a trade deal could
happen almost immediately. And what do
we see him doing this week? He's having
a meeting with Xi Jinping and he's
leading into countries part of the
bricks.
>> You were in the room with the cabinet
just yesterday. The commerce secretary
Howard Lutnik sparking a minor rally in
defense stocks after suggesting the US
might take stakes in some defense
contractors. Lutnik mentioned Loheed
Martin saying it gets most of its
revenue from federal contracts.
>> So I guess because it gets revenue from
federal contracts, they think they
should have a piece of the pie. I guess
if you're looking at the art of the deal
though, when you see what valuations are
right now, why take a bite of the apple
when valuations are so high? Isn't art
of the deal to really buy low and then
sell high? Not going to get into how
they're thinking about where valuations
are. What I will say is is that whether
it's Intel, whether it's this golden
share of Nippon Steel, there was also
the Pentagon having a deal with a rare
earths mineral company, MP Materials,
$400 million equity stake. I think
that's what they're looking at in terms
of where are they going to play in the
defense sector and they're going to say
we're doing this because of national
security concerns.
>> Look, sometimes the freehanded market
doesn't help you secure national
security objectives. Building out
domestic foundry capacity for
semiconductors might be an example of
that. Okay. But I think we want to do
our best to foster innovation. And I
don't think anyone could sit here right
now and say that private defense
contractors in America haven't fostered
innovation over the past few decades.
They have the technology that everybody
wants. So, I'd be asking the question,
okay, if you want to take stakes in
these companies, what aren't they doing
that you'd like them to do? Is this
really about national security
objectives or just about getting some
money?
>> Well, I think that's a question
everyone's asking. What are you
basically, and we saw this in the Biden
administration, national security ended
up being this cloak put on everything
else to make movements that were either
socially inclined or politically
inclined. This is being used national
security to basically get at what you
want. Many are potentially going to say.
What I will say though, Jonathan, is the
government is intervening and it's not
going to stop here. And Howard Lutnik
was pretty clear about that yesterday.
>> Speaking of intervention, the White
House trying to gain more influence over
the Federal Reserve's 12 regional banks
and looking at how regional presidents
are chosen. The board of governors is
set to approve the current roster of
reserve bank presidents this coming
February. So the pressure on that
institution is going to continue to
build.
>> So the idea here is and the president
said yesterday there's going to we're
going to be have a majority. Well, they
will have a majority if they're able to
put someone in Lisa Cook's seat. And
right now obviously she's having going
to have this legal battle with the Oval
Office. And if they're able to
potentially have this majority, the
thinking is those governors that were
appointed by the president will vote to
reshape how the presidencies work. Now,
this might be a long shot, which a lot
of people are thinking it potentially
is, but we have reporting that this is
something they're thinking about.
>> I take issue with some of this. We
expect Governor Waller, Governor Bowman
to go along with this and just start
voting down regional Fed presidents.
We're going to treat them as political
puppets.
>> Well, you asked McKe this question
earlier in the week and it was the key
question and he said he finds that
really hard to believe that those two
individuals would go along with this.
>> That's the latest on the Federal
Reserve. Let's turn back to tech in the
main event after the closing bow later
on this afternoon. earnings from Nvidia.
Jeffrey Girtz, the former White House
director for international economics
under President Biden, writing the
following. The financial performance of
semiconductor companies and especially
Nvidia are increasingly driven by
government policy. Nvidia is squeezed
between both the US and Chinese
governments. It will be a struggle to
satisfy both of them. Jeffrey joins us
now for more. Jeffrey, welcome to the
program, sir. I just want to extend some
of the thinking with you. Do you think
it's going to get harder and harder to
maintain a presence in both markets,
both the US and in China?
>> Yeah, certainly. Thank you for having
me. Happy to be here. You know, I do
think this is the real question Nvidia
is facing and you know, other companies
as well. Can they actually manage to be
in both these markets at the same time?
We've seen the United States under
successive administrations put in place
more and more policies, certainly their
own export controls making it more
difficult to do uh business in China. uh
and we see the Chinese government taking
its own action saying you know don't
trust US chip companies these chips may
have secret back doors in them all these
kind of concerns on it so I think you
know Nvidia is clearly trying to chart
out a path between the two of these we
see Jensen Wong kind of shuttling back
and forth between Beijing and Washington
uh but it is a perilous path to travel I
think
>> for a long time Jeffrey we always
thought about this from one side would
we allow our technology in America to go
to China and now I think increasingly
we've got to think about the other side
will China allow that techn technology
to continue coming into the country.
Where are we on that point now?
>> Yeah, exactly. So, I think we've known
for a long time that China always wanted
to have its own indigenous capabilities.
I think going back sort of, you know, at
least to the kind of 2018 moves that the
first Trump administration put in place
uh targeting Huawei. The Chinese
government, you know, they're not
stupid. They've been aware that this is
a kind of key vulnerability for them.
And so, they've been trying to build up
their own domestic tech capabilities.
Certainly once the Biden administration
expanded the semiconductor export
controls in 2022 and 2023, it's been
kind of full steam ahead in Beijing to,
you know, increase their own
capabilities. And obviously part of that
is saying, well, don't buy American, buy
domestic Chinese produced chips instead.
Again, there's still this back and forth
where, you know, the Chinese want access
to the real cutting edge, which remains
for now only US produced. Uh but for
everything less than that, they're going
to do all that they can to procure that
domestically. And that means kind of,
you know, dictats from the central
government to support the domestic uh
capabilities rather than buying Nvidia
or other US chips.
>> Whether it's the 15% potentially going
back those profits from sending those
chips to China, whether it's the stake
in Intel, this interventionist approach
from this White House, what do you make
of it? What do you actually think this
government wants?
Yeah, I mean that that's the
million-dollar question there. Uh and
you know short answer is I don't know. I
think look at a very high level you can
think of these equity stakes in two
ways. One is the government kind of just
out to get monies or you know a claim on
future profits or second is this really
about more kind of governance and
shaping the kind of broader development
of these industries. Frankly the
administration hasn't really been clear.
I think mostly what you've heard from
Trump and Lutnik is talk about kind of
oh we want to get some payback for the
US taxpayers. Um, but it's not clear to
me that equity stakes are the best way
to do that. And so I'm very curious to
see, you know, do we see the government
want to play a kind of more heavy-handed
role in actually shaping the development
uh of these industries or are they
really just trying to sort of
transactionalist kind of get a few extra
bucks uh wherever they can here?
>> Who do you think could be next after
Intel?
>> I mean, that's also a great question.
So, you know, we've heard talk of kind
of other companies that have received
chips act money also being kind of
potentially uh targets for the year.
There is an important difference, right?
So, Intel notably under the chips act um
in order to receive grants on the chips
act, you need to be hitting your various
performance milestones. It seems quite
likely that Intel was not hitting those
milestones. And so, this equity stake
deal is a way for them to get that cash
out even without hitting those
milestones. I think for the chips
companies that are hitting their
milestones, they're going to be much
more reluctant to deal any kind of
equity stake. So, we'll see how that all
plays out. Um, you know, defense
contractors, I know you're just talking
about, that's another key area where it
seems quite possible. The kind of
critical mineral space, uh, another
strategic sector where the government
has already made some moves and we could
see some more moves. I think
>> this decade, as you know, Jeffrey,
you've been there. The White House under
Biden, under Trump, has really
re-engaged with industrial policy. What
would you say is the biggest difference
between what you worked for and and what
you're seeing play out now?
>> Yeah. So, certainly, we've seen this
longerterm shift towards industrial
policy, which again, I think is merited.
I think it makes sense for the
government to be getting involved to
support some of these strategic sectors.
But I think, you know, what we've seen
previously is government try and set
kind of broad rules of the road, rules
of the game, say, you know, here's the
kind of broad policy package of
subsidies or whatever it may be that
will be available to any company that
meets uh the various requirements to
qualify for it. And so sort of, you
know, set the rules of the game and then
let the private sector kind of go out
and do its thing. What we've seen, you
know, certainly in the last few months
from the Trump administration is this
much more sort of transactional ad hoc
one-off get involved with individual
companies. Uh and so what we really see
is that you know traditionally where
you'd have the government sort of set
the rules of the game, the Trump
administration is both setting the rules
of the game but then also sort of
playing in that game itself and kind of
going out and negotiating its own deals.
And I think that's creating lots of
frankly chaos kind of lots of
uncertainty for where the market is
going both for the companies that the uh
government is taking a stake in but also
quite frankly for all the governments
that sorry for all the companies who are
sort of customers or potential suppliers
to those companies. uh there's just like
tons of uncertainty and tons of
politicization around this.
>> Jeffrey, can I just finish by saying
this and I hope you take this in the
spirit in which it's intended. One of
the greatest mistakes of the previous
administration is that they didn't allow
people like you, Dip Singh, Mike Pile to
engage with the public and talk about
what you were actually doing. Can you
share some of that with us? What was
that about? Why were you all hidden away
and weren't allowed to talk to us?
>> So, I don't have any kind of direct
answer to that. Look, I think kind of,
you know, many administrations struggle
with sort of getting the right narrative
out there. I think you know this
administration or the Biden
administration um did that as well. So I
think there you know is some recognition
of the need to get out and tell a
positive story here. Uh I think you know
we are seeing from the current
administration that there's lots of lack
of clarity and lack of message
discipline one might say uh coming out
as well. So it's a problem that many
administrations face. But I agree that
you know it's important that the public
understands what is the government
really trying to achieve in any of these
industrial policy stakes. Uh both to
sort of just bring the public along for
kind of general accountability but also
to provide kind of forward guidance for
industry about where do we want to go.
>> Enjoy the chat. Thanks for catching up
with us. Coming on again soon. I'd
appreciate it. Jeffrey Girtz there of
the Center for a New American Security.
You're on the same page. It was
ridiculous.
>> Absolutely. But I also think that both
these administrations could learn
something from each other. Sometimes the
Trump administration just floods the
airwaves and maybe a message they're
trying to get across is diluted because
there's so many people speaking at the
exact same time. The other hand, you
have the Biden administration which
really was very shy.
>> It was preachy. It wasn't shy. It was
preachy.
>> But no, but shy from even wanting to
engage and do interviews. I mean, how
many times have we sat down with the
current Treasury Secretary Scott
>> Best?
more times than I even had facetime with
Treasury Secretary.
>> Take firm questions, too. I've always
said that. I said the same thing about
Larry Cuddlo in the first term for
President Trump. There was something
about the former administration where
they just believed that everything they
knew was better than what you know and
that there is no space for conversation
because what we say goes and that's
basically it. And trust us because we're
right. And that was their approach to
inflation as well. Inflation's not high.
I'm going to tell you what inflation is.
And the rest of the country was, well,
actually, I'm really squeezed right now.
This isn't working for me. And then at
some point that's why they had to
recalibrate on a number of fronts
including President Biden going to Saudi
Arabia and ask them to have more oil
because he had to bring gas prices down.
But even just yesterday just from a
journalist perspective 3 hours 16
minutes there was a lot of noise in that
cabinet meeting. But that is not
something you would experience under the
Biden administration.
>> That's the latest on the politics and
policy. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The European Union will try to
fasttrack legislation to remove all
tariffs on US industrial goods by the
end of the week. President Trump is
requiring the removal before the US
lowers its duties on the block's auto
exports. The European Commission will
also give preferential
tariff rates on some US seafood and
agricultural products. Meanwhile, LEGO
posting record-breaking sales in the
first half of the year, boosted by its
brick flowers and cars. The Danish toy
maker expanded its market share in every
major geography. But said Asia is
playing a very important role in its
strategy. Lego CEO said there are a lot
of children in Asia and living standards
are going up. That makes Lego more
relevant. And Elon Musk SpaceX Starship
successfully launched its 10th test
flight that deployed satellites for the
first time. Starship is the centerpiece
of the company's plans to send huge
batches of its Starlike Starlink
internet satellites into Earth's orbit
and carry humans to the moon and
eventually Mars. That brief John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program, the
pressure building on the Federal
Reserve. This is really an unprecedented
attack on the independence of the
Federal Reserve, which means higher
inflation, potentially less credibility,
even higher long-term interest rates,
bad for the economy.
>> Up next, Christian Mani of Lafayette
College from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities positive by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. Drama in Washington, no
drama on Wall Street. Very close to
all-time highs coming into Wednesday.
And Savanis this morning, the pressure
building on the Federal Reserve.
The Federal Reserve is in an incredibly
difficult position here. But you have to
remember this is not about an individual
governor. This is really an
unprecedented attack on the independence
of the Federal Reserve, which means
higher inflation, potentially less
credibility, even higher long-term
interest rates, bad for the economy.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
bond market in focus as President Donald
Trump and Fed Governor Lisa Kirk gear up
for an intense legal battle following
the move to ou the Fed official. Krishna
Mammani of Lafayette College writing why
is the longen so stable. The only
possible reason I can come up with is
that the Trump taco thinking permeates
bond markets that includes all the
minations related to the Fed. Christa
joins us now for more. Christrista, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is that your take on things this morning
then? Well, so you know, you have to ask
yourself, you know, if if this Fed
independence issue is really that
important, then it ought to have a
really substantially more impact on the
bond market than it has had so far. And
why is that why is that not the case?
And I I again I can come up with five
reasons. None of them actually stick. So
the only thing I can think of is the
markets are basically saying, okay, if
things move in the wrong direction on a
sustained basis, then maybe all of this
gets pulled in. Let's play this out.
Let's say there was a complete takeover
of the Federal Reserve,
>> absolute fiscal dominance.
>> The first thing I'd be expecting was
massive bump back, yield curve control.
>> Well, I I think if it isn't, if they
don't do yield curve control in that
environment, you know, long rates are
going to be meaningfully higher. There's
no doubt about that. And Summerland
actually had wrote an op-ed not too long
ago and he's one of the candidates
basically saying exactly the same thing.
that is you know if if fiscal
authorities take over a central bank and
they want to control rates you know we
have seen that 15 different times in
different places
>> I'm surprised more people are thinking
about the postpow world they're still
thinking about the postpow world with a
chairman power way of thinking about the
world in the postpow world you've got to
believe that the president is going to
want lower borrowing costs for the
government and lower mortgage costs for
consumers and with that in mind
shouldn't we be thinking about more
activist central bank balance sheet
policy
>> well so I I I think activist central
bank policy to what end that is you know
what is the
>> lower mortgage rates lower borrowing
costs
>> well that that's not uh that's not what
the Fed's mandate is the Fed's mandate
is employment inflation and the
inflation part hasn't gone away and old
stalwarts like Waller I I think in that
scenario uh will probably exert
themselves more much the way they're
exerting themselves
>> about a way to justify this it would be
pretty straightforward Danny Burger was
talking about this on a program in the
last week. You could say, "I'm looking
at reducing interest rates, but it's not
leading to a drop in long-end rates.
Therefore, I'm seeing the bond market,
the global bond market, impede the
efficacy of domestic monetary policy,
and it would be helpful to use the
balance sheet to address that concern."
Isn't that the way to get around all
this?
>> Well, so I I think if you think about
it, that's what QE was about a little
bit uh on the on the other side. So yes,
you can justify it, but I think from an
economic theory and policy standpoint, I
think it would be really hard to justify
in light of the data at that particular
time. And that data in that particular
time in that environment probably
wouldn't be as supportive as it is today
to that cause.
>> You mentioned Governor Waller. He's just
one individual on the list though. What
if there was someone that is to
Jonathan's point thinking about how
maybe how this administration would want
to bring long end yields down and
mortgage rates down?
>> Well, so I I think as as Waller has
articulated that, you know, the if the
environment is right, we shouldn't be
too restrictive because it ends up being
causing problems for the economy. I
think in a scenario where you're
basically forcing rates down through
yield control, that would not be the
case. So yes, they can sign up for that
policy, but it would be very difficult
for them to justify it in economic uh e
economic grounds rather than just a
political move. And you know, the one
thing that you have to kind of uh give
to this administration is if they focus
on some things, they will go allin and
you know, we should in a in a dire
scenario, we should probably expect
that. When it comes to Fed independence
and Governor Lisa Cook, if the court
says that she's in her right to say and
the president cannot remove her, what
happens next?
>> Well, so I I think if
it would be very difficult for somebody
to remain very credible uh in that sort
of a situation.
>> Do you think she goes regardless?
>> I I think she goes regardless, but I
think she goes with a after a fight.
>> Should we get to the market? Cool. Yep.
>> Stocks or bonds? Uh I I you know again
stocks if I had to buy something I would
rather buy stocks rather than buy bonds.
>> I think the risk of reaceleration is
probably not being discounted in the
market appropriately.
>> So you see it in certain places in the
stock market small caps banks seeing it
in some cyclical seeing it in the
airlines too.
>> You think that can continue?
>> I I I think if my guess is right I think
the economy is not slowing down put
aside inflation for a second. economy is
not slowing down and it is really
supportive of the cyclical sectors
whether uh you know whether we'll get
the oomph that we are looking for that
remains an open question but I think the
cyclical part of the economy is is doing
much better than we give it currently
>> so just as the Fed's about to cut
interest rates you're expecting a
reaceleration in the US economy
>> and and and I think that's why it'll be
probably end up being one and done
rather than what the bond market is
thinking about
>> so one and done for this year or for the
whole of next year too
>> no I I think more this here. You know,
it's a very dynamic economy. Things
could be materially different next year.
Unlikely, but could
>> I struggle to believe the incoming Fed
chair, whoever it might be, won't be
cutting interest rates in 2026.
>> Well, you know, again, I have a lot of
confidence in the other uh other
members, uh, you know, Waller, Bowman,
you know, I think they will do the right
thing for the environment. I think
Waller has an aspiration to be the
chair. If he's the chair, then, you
know, I think we'll be golden. When you
say oomph to the economy, how is that
going to happen when consumers might
start pushing back? We've seen it in
some sectors on higher prices.
>> Well, I I think consumers have started
pushing back, but if you look at
something like Bank America credit card
data, you know, they are they are better
this month than last month and last
month was better than the month before.
So, I I think the the consumer slowdown
is people kind of uh taking McDonald's
data and you know extending it too far.
>> Krishna, it's good to see you.
>> Thank you. Thank you, sir. Is that what
we're calling BLS data or just
McDonald's earnings? Okay, I don't want
to go there. You don't either. Chris
Maloney of Leaf College. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
Everything is expensive right now. We
should expect lower returns across the
board, both from stocks and from bonds.
>> When I look at the S&P 493, there's a
lot of businesses in tech hardware. You
don't want to have a scenario where tech
and tech capex slows down.
>> We saw a really good earning season and
some of that has been baked in Nvidia
stock. It's starting to feel to me like
we are paying 2030 prices for 2025
technology.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now as we count you down to
the opening bound 90 minutes away. The
price action, your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500,
firmer this morning by not even a tenth
of 1%. Similar move on the NASDAQ 100
after a period of outperformance on
small caps in the last 24 hours. We're a
little bit softer this morning, down by
a tenth of 1%. The main event later on
this afternoon after the closing bell,
earnings from Nvidia, the bar is always
high.
>> The bar is very high. What you've been
saying consistently, I think, is really
important. The question going into this
when it comes to China is not even so
much what Nvidia is able to sell into
China. It's what China is willing to
take at this moment. Do they even want
the chips anymore? And then I think when
you look potentially how Jensen Wang is
going to talk about China, where is he
right now with this administration and
potentially getting export licenses to
sell something like a Blackwell chip
into China? And then the follow-up
question has to be, well, what are they
asking you in terms of profit if you're
allowed to sell that chip into Beijing?
I joked yesterday that Nvidia makes up
8% of the S&P, 10% of the NASDAQ, and
110% of investor sentiment. But this
market's far more than just about Nvidia
right now. Small caps, banks, home
builders, airlines, all rocketing over
the past few weeks.
>> And what did we just hear from Krishna
Mani? He thinks that there's an oomph
right now in the economy and there's
still more to go. Which is why at this
moment you asked him, are you equities
or bonds? And he says it's equities.
Krishna Mani on the program 10 minutes
ago looking for the Federal Reserve to
drop interest rates just as the economy
is taking off and rebounding into the
back half of the year. Big call equity
futures right now the S&P just about
positive coming up this hour. Alex Alman
of Barclays with stocks near all-time
highs. Gil Laura of DA Davidson as
investors are bracing for Nvidia results
and Matt Lazetti of Deutsche Bank as he
ramps up rake up bets. We begin this
hour with stocks close to all-time highs
ahead of earnings from Nvidia. Alex
Alman of Barclay's writing, "With the
backdrop of a long weekend approaching
in the US and low volumes may simply be
enough for risk to continue rallying in
the wake of these results." Alex joins
us now for more. Alex, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you, sir. This market
is not just about tech and Nvidia. What
did you notice in yesterday's price
action in small caps and in rates?
>> So, not just yesterday, this has been on
for really a few weeks now. And what we
think is important is to talk about
potentially a regime shift within the
equity market. And that is effectively
moving from uh a postcoid environment or
post-inflation environment of higher for
longer and into something that looks
different i.e. lower interest rates. And
I don't necessarily mean that we're
going to suddenly drop back to you know
a zero interest rate world. But if we're
just on a path towards more gradual rate
cuts, we have to consider there is
effectively been a K-shaped recovery in
the economy for a number of years now.
Small caps have been suffering for a
very long time. Is it their time that
actually they start to outperform
because they are the biggest beneficiary
of interest rate cuts?
>> Let's just sit on the why and why short
rates because if you look across the
curve right now, yes, a lot of people
are convinced the front end yields are
going to drop. The long end remains a
debate. Why are short rates at the very
front of the curve so important to small
caps?
>> Very simply because you're looking at
between 45 and 50% of the Russell 2000
debt is variable rate. So and then if
you look at the overall weighted average
maturity of Russell including that
you're looking at probably somewhere
between three and four years. So the
front end of the curve really matters
for Russell and that's not to take away
from backend rates 10 year 30-year can
obviously affect the broader risk
sentiment. It's more the fact that if we
just operate in the environment of the
back end of the curve being relatively
stable and we can talk about the
independence of the Fed and whatnot as
well separately such parabas if the
front end of the curve comes down that
means that it's going to be a direct
beneficiary for small caps. Who owns
small caps right now? No one. It's one
of the biggest underweights that we've
seen in our data for extremely long
time.
>> Let's talk about the independence of the
Fed though and what that means for the
long end. We have seen a steepening but
it's been quite muted. If you are really
concerned about the independence of this
Fed, why are we not seeing a bigger
market reaction?
>> I think that in itself is is a really
good question. We could obviously just
say there's a degree of investor
lethargy apathy. It's it's the summer
time and you know they're not really
going to do anything until everyone
comes back from Labor Day. But I also
just think we have to work off the
assumption. It's really easy to
extrapolate this narrative into these
doomongering forecasts into the future.
But you have to also remember that we
are operating with an administration.
The commander of the United States often
says things and doesn't do things. And
you have to take him often very
seriously but not necessarily literally.
And right now I think that we're in that
environment where the market is still
trying to grapple with what is Trump
actually saying and what does he end up
doing? Case in point and I know this is
a dramatic tangent but whatever happened
with Greenland for example, you know, we
don't talk about that anymore. That was
going to become suddenly the 51st state.
I just think that we just need to sort
of like pump the brakes a little bit.
>> You're talking about this idea of taco.
Trump always chickens out, but he
hasn't. In a lot of respects, people
never thought we would bomb Iranian
nuclear facilities the way this
administration decided to do so. So, how
do you know which Trump you're going to
get? At least when it comes to the
Federal Reserve,
>> I don't think you do. But at the end of
the day, I think we have to trade the
sequencing and not necessarily what the
end goal is going to be. I think if we
start trading end goals, I think if
nothing else, this Trump administration
has taught us that effectively we're
operating in rolling four-week windows
um during the course of 202.
>> I think it's two weeks, but yeah,
>> sure. But you see, I mean, and that was
one of the tongue-in-cheek things that
we as a team sort of thought about and
said at the beginning of the year is is
that actually every trade that we talk
about is probably good for about four
weeks and that's about it. And sadly,
that's the is the is still the
environment we're operating in right
now. So, I can't say what necessarily
what the endgame of what this Trump uh
press on the Fed is going to look like.
I can just effectively try and make
forecasts for the next four weeks and I
would say the next four weeks probably
looks still relatively benign.
>> Well, that's your seat tactical
strategies. So, just share the
sequencing with us. How are you thinking
about the sequencing of things with
regards to the Fed?
>> Well, so I think that obviously the
first comes first we're going to have um
September data. So, we're going to get
the monthly cycles. We'll have payrolls.
We'll have the ISM of retail sales and
CPI and whatnot. Payrolls for example
actually the alternative data if you
look at sort of ADP forecast moving
average of jobless claims. All of that
looking is looking relatively benign. So
we should actually get a a relatively
okay number based upon this sort of
early indication and that then sort of
ties into okay so that does that mean
the SCP for the Fed in September means
we get the 25 basis point cut but it is
more of a one and done as a previous
commentator just mentioned but again
we're talking about something that's
already four weeks away. There's too
much information to try and make bold
forecast that far. What I can tell you
is is that we've built a relatively
robust um equity timing indicator sort
of using a bunch of market variables and
right now that's telling us that
actually it's still a relatively
favorable environment to be invested in
US equities over the next 4 to 8 weeks.
>> When you started talking about payrolls,
one of the first things you did was talk
about alternative jobs data. Now I just
wonder if you're seeing investors engage
in the situation in the same way. Are
they starting to look at ADP as event
risk on the calendar now?
>> Yes, they are. And I don't think that's
necessarily an entirely new phenomenon.
If you actually look at the the
trajectory of ADP over the past 9 to 12
months, it's actually been okay. I
wouldn't say it's been the perfect
forecaster, but it's one of the inputs
that you can use along with jobless
claims, along with NFIB hiring
intentions. There's a variety of
different measures you can amalgam it
together to help get a reasonable
picture of what the job market looks
like. And obviously with payroll
specifically, there's this big birth
death adjustment which is hugely
volatile. one of the actual reasons why
there's been so much criticism of them.
And so consequently, I think that you do
get this volatility in payrolls,
especially at a time where we're only
generating about 70 to 100,000 jobs a
month. And in an environment where
immigration is collapsed, it does leave
us vulnerable in general to a potential
wobbly payroll print. But again, that's
in the context of the standard deviation
of the number, it's very hard to
forecast.
>> Are you almost ignoring the inflation
reports?
>> I'm not ignoring the inflation reports.
I would just I try to take a step back
is that if I know that we can't think
about it just like this, but let's say
we were in a world where we didn't have
tariffs, what would inflation really be
looking like? So I really point at the
biggest component of inflation is of
course housing, lodging, that kind of
stuff, rents. If you look at the
Cleveland Fed's own data of rent, new
new rents, it's down 9% yearonear and
all rents are only up 2 and a half%
which is basically in line with where it
was precoid. So the biggest part of that
inflation component is not really
anything particularly dramatic. So if
you put tariffs to the side for one
second because quite frankly I don't
think anyone knows what the inflationary
impact of tariffs is going to be. I
actually don't think the inflationary
backdrop for the US right now is as
anywhere near as egregious as some
commentators would say.
>> So that basically means the Fed really
does have an open door for September.
>> I I think they do have an open door for
September. Barclay's economists are one
of the few holdouts that wasn't going
for the se September cut. they've now
changed to a September cuts that looks
like it's pretty much a lock and after
that I think we should try and take a
step away from what you know October or
December looks like and instead Jonathan
like to your point just think about what
a post power Fed looks like and this
matters for stocks stocks are supposed
to be forward discounting mechanisms and
so this comes back to my small cap point
I don't think it really matters
enormously whether they cut in September
or December if the path of interest
rates is lower and we have a line of
sight on lower interest rates in a
postpower world in 2026, then we have to
assume that parts of the economy that
have basically been in low growth or
even recessionary environment for two
plus years now is going to start to get
some reprieve and investors are not
positioned for that.
>> You don't have to wait for 26 for that.
We're going to find out who the next Fed
chair is going to be in a fall of this
year and whoever that person is, I don't
think they're going to be quiet about
what they think should happen to
interest rates and everything else for
next year and beyond.
>> Absolutely not. because the names on
that list have already been making the
rounds, including on programs like this,
talking about what they would like to
see at the Federal Reserve. And what did
we just hear from Mark Short, who was in
the room? He his his VP was in the room,
Trump 1.0, one of the biggest issues
going into whether or not Donald Trump
was going to choose you as Fed chair was
a key question. Are you going to cut
interest rates? Last time you were with
us, you talked about just how much
volume, a big chunk of volume in this
equity market was going through a
handful of names that make up a couple
of basis points of total equity market
capitalization in this country. You
still seeing a similar dynamic?
>> It's definitely come off the froth and
off off the boil. Uh whether that's a
function of just again a summer lull. We
often see a pickup in um in retail
enthusiasm again in the autumn. It's
like a last harrah before the end of the
year and then the beginning of each year
tends to be a slowdown again. But the
short answer is no. we have seen a pick
up in activity of course in small capsu
and last time I was here we did talk
about that too and so I do think it's
not just about retail what's going on I
think there's something that's bigger
that's happening and again that's why I
want to sort of insert this vernacular
of potentially a regime shift
>> we heard the pitch we got it loud and
clear appreciate it thank you sir
Alexman there of Barclays on the latest
equity market moves and the
outperformance we've seen recently in
small caps let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief for more hey yahara
>> hi John President Donald Trump saying
He's prepared for a legal fight with Fed
Governor Lisa Cook after he attempted to
fire her. This as Cook's lawyer vowed to
file a lawsuit over Trump's move. The
Fed said it would abide by any court
verdict and deferred any decision on
Cook's current working status.
Meanwhile, shares of peanut butter and
jelly maker JM Smucker are falling 3.2%
in the pre-market. The company reported
first quarter net sales that missed
estimates. Smucker said coffee, dog
snacks, sweet baked goods, and fruit
spreads were among the areas hit by
lower demand. It has also been battling
the impact of higher coffee costs due to
President Trump's trade policies. And in
sports, Eag
are advancing at the US Open after
handily winning their matches. Center is
aiming to become the first repeat
champion at the US Open since 2008.
Elsewhere, 45-year-old Venus Williams
will continue her bid for a trophy after
being awarded a wildcard entry into the
doubles draw with Ila Fernandez. Yet,
all the focus has been on Alcarez's
buzzcut. That's your brief, John.
>> I noticed the same thing. Yeah, I
mentioned it yesterday, too. Kind of
shocking. I think he looks good. It's
hard to argue with that.
>> Yeah, I don't know. Maybe it helps him
play better.
>> Head looks shredded. Probably going to
win the US Open. Up next on the program,
the morning calls. Plus, Gil Laura of
DAD Davidson as investors are bracing
for results from Nvidia. That's coming
up later on this afternoon from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
you take rates down by 50 basis points,
75 basis points, you're getting in the 3
and a half% range. I think that is
that's okay. The market's willing to
absorb that based on what's happening
with the labor market at the moment. If
you're seeing actually a stabilization
in the economy, maybe even a little bit
of a reaceleration at the same time as
we still have inflation north of 2% and
above the Fed's target, I think that's
when questions will be called as to
whether they need to go any further.
That was Ian Staley of JP Morgan Asset
Management joining us a little bit early
this morning. If you are just tuning in,
good morning to you all. Here's the
state of play. Futures just about
positive going into earnings from Nvidia
later on this afternoon. Equities up by
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500 and on the
NASDAQ 100. That's the price action.
Here's some morning calls. First up,
HSBC upgrading Eli Liy to hold, seeing
upside potential to consensus estimates.
Your second call from Goldman Sachs
downgrading Deutsche Bank to neutral,
citing its current valuation and
significant outperformance so far this
year. And finally, JP Morgan downgrading
Crispy Cream to underweight, seeing
execution risk in the company's
turnaround plan. That stock is down by
more than 6%. Let's stick with tech or
turn to tech. Nvidia's highly
anticipated earnings expected to give
insight into the durability of the AI
spending boom. It's the main event in
this market worldwide. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Mandep, good morning. It's good to
see you. Set the stage. What are you
expecting?
>> Well, so they actually wrote down the
H20 revenue last quarter and so the
expectations for this quarter of around
45 to 46 billion they will beat by at
least 2 billion plus. it's the next
quarter. So consensus right now is
around 53. I think the buy side bogey is
more 54 to 55 and they will likely
exceed it. So from that perspective the
numbers will look good. The key question
that I have for uh I guess Nvidia and
investors are looking at is the models
haven't converged in functionality. So
if you compare chat GPT to claw to uh
anthropic and Gemini they have not
converged. If compute was the real
constraint and everyone can use you know
Nvidia GPUs to uh kind of converge the
model functionality then yes compute is
where the answer lies. I think the
market is more gravitating towards
better data and that is where if you're
optimizing for better data I think some
companies have started looking at that
more closely by use case. So you need
better data for coding agent or for
search. So depending on the use case you
need to create that data and in that
scenario I think Nvidia will see some
slowdown. I mean it'll still the growth
rate will still be great but that to me
is the real crux of what will determine
the growth going forward.
>> Mandep stay close. I want to bring in
Gil Laura as well. He joins us from DA
Davidson has a neutral rating on Nvidia
with a price target of 135. Gil I've got
to say 135 these days sounds like a
sell. So talk to me about the downside
risk going into this event.
Yeah, that price target was set uh three
months ago when the stock was a little
lower than that. So, uh we have had a
lot of positive developments in the
sense that the models have gotten a lot
better. Uh to your point, the a lot of
models have gotten better. They're
comparable and they are far more uh
competent and useful. The adoption for
consumers and for employees is happening
very quickly which means the demands for
compute from the hyperscalers continue
to go up and that's really all that
matters. That is why they should be able
to comfortably hit their numbers for
this quarter uh and probably guide
pretty well for next quarter. Uh the
only noise right now is around China.
That's not a demand issue. That's a how
many chips can Nvidia sell in China?
Which chips? How much taxes are they
going to pay on them? Will they get the
next generation of chips approved?
That's really the variability around the
results. If we even 3 months ago thought
that this may be peak year for demand
for Nvidia, we no longer think that the
AI models are so powerful driving so
much demand that we do expect them to
grow into next year. And as Jonathan's
been saying, another key question for
China is whether or not Beijing even
wants the chips. So, how do you start to
at least in a model thinking about what
they report tonight, think about what
are they going to say when it comes to
profits from Beijing?
>> Well, that that is a very big question
because the news flow is daily on that
front. Now, let's be clear. China needs
the chips right now and Chinese
companies need the chips right now. They
are ramping up domestic production from
Huawei. Those chips are catching up in
terms of functionality, but right now
both American and Chinese companies have
insatiable demand for these chips. So
they'll take any H20s they can get.
China is just signaling that they got
upset over the fact that we started
putting trackers into our servers into
those H20 servers. The US was concerned
that we are sending uh chips to
resellers in other parts of Asia that
are ending up in China. We started
putting trackers in those servers and
chips in order to make sure that
smuggling isn't happening. The Chinese
got upset over it. They're saying to
their they're warning their companies
not to buy chips and servers with
trackers. It's just adding to the drama.
Not sure Jensen Wong himself has
visibility into how that's going to play
out. Again, it'll continue to be a
source of noise.
>> Well, you think Beijing is just
posturing because there was a recent
report that Nvidia told its suppliers to
halt component production for the H20s.
>> Well, we'll find out. We'll find out
today. And again, the H20 is going to
add noise because those chips were
entirely written down. So, they should
have come in at 100% margin and now
there's a 15% tariff on them. There may
be some customers in China that have
listened to the government and will and
will pause their buying. Maybe they're
waiting for the B30 which will be
approved. Maybe there's a negotiation of
whether or not there's trackers in
there. We may get some of that today,
but the company's actually been very
guarded about what they say about China.
So, we may leave tonight not knowing any
more than we know right now.
>> I'm always thinking about the what if
further down the road. Can you imagine a
scenario where Nvidia just doesn't have
a presence in China anymore and has to
choose a market to be in?
>> Yeah. And and that future is quite
possible. I I think the analog is Apple,
right? Apple uh China used to be more
than 20% of Apple's sales. That's been
declining every year with domestic
competition. So the Chinese are allowing
iPhones in but promoting and and
encouraging the domestic maker was also
Huawei Xiaomi to to sell uh the phones
there. I would expect a similar picture
for Nvidia. The Chinese market will grow
very fast. their share within China will
decline over time. And really the
battleground is uh countries like the
Gulf States and Europe where Nvidia will
try to to uh to hold back the Chinese
makers from gaining market share there
and and the government is try the US
government is trying to help them with
that.
>> Gil, we saw that play out earlier this
year. Appreciate your time, sir. Gil
Lori there of DA Davidson on Nvidia.
Mandy, just to explore this a little bit
further. China as a risk factor
counterbalanced by maybe sovereign
demand elsewhere in the Gulf. How do you
think that's going to play out?
>> It absolutely will and in Saudi they are
building 200 megawatt data centers. Most
likely they'll end up using Nvidia and
AMD. But look when you are dealing with
such large numbers you know 200 billion
business growing at 50%. If capex of
even one of the hyperscalers goes down,
it's not 30 40% growth next year that
will have a bearing on Nvidia even with
the sovereign demand because if China is
not panning out, they have 10 or 15
customers that drive the bulk of the
data center revenue. So we have to
closely watch out for each of these
model providers where they are with
respect to their model functionality and
how much are they willing to invest in
Nvidia GPUs. Joel said that he thinks
there's going to be approval for the
B30. What kind of um advanced technology
does that chip have over the H20?
>> I mean, I think Blackwell's uh which is
the new version will have some word of a
version which is not as advanced as what
they're selling in the US and the Europe
markets. That's what they will package
in the B30. But, you know, the talk
about Nvidia giving 15% of their revenue
to the government. I mean, these are the
sort of things I don't think it's
likely, but you never know. And from
that perspective, the China market is so
hard to model for Nvidia that if you're
an investor, you want to X out the China
number and see what the real growth rate
is. And I think that's what the
investors will focus on tonight.
>> Mandy, one conversation we had a little
bit earlier, it's not a conversation for
tonight, but maybe further down the
road, energy constraints and the
backlash you could see from consumers,
citizens of countries like this one and
elsewhere. actually that could be a
positive for Nvidia. The reason I say
that is because the next version of
their chip is more optimized for power
and performance. So if there is a real
bull case to me that is the power
constraint and you're absolutely right
there will be a lot of push back on you
know power. So if the chip is more
optimized for power that actually goes
in Nvidia's favor.
>> It's a good point. It's going to get
expensive and more expensive and it
already is. It already is getting
expensive and already this is becoming a
huge issue in Washington DC with
lawmakers talking about the fact that
small businesses, individuals are seeing
higher electricity prices and the
president talked about this yesterday in
his cabinet meeting. This Mark
Zuckerberg photo that was sent to him a
data center the size of Manhattan huge
>> being opened up in Louisiana.
>> Mandy, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Mandy Singer Bloomberg
Intelligence looking ahead to earnings
from Nvidia after the closing bell. Up
next, Matt Lazetti of Deutsche Bank as
he's ramping up rate cut bets. Plus,
we'll touch base with Danny to get your
morning movers.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. 60 minutes away from the
opening bow. Futures look like this on
the S&P 500. Just about positive on both
the S&P and on the NASDAQ going into the
big earnings report later on this
afternoon after the close. Numbers from
Nvidia. Let's turn to the bond market.
2-year, 10 year, and 30year. Just sit on
the front end of the curve. Earlier on
today on twos, 364. That's a new low
post payrolls. Right now, down about two
basis points. 36556. This curve steeper
with the long end. 30-year bond yields
higher by two basis points. 494.
That theme continues. That's the price
action across stocks and bonds. Let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Here's Danny. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Just a trickle of earnings
this morning, including JM Smucker. A
disappointment it missed on its current
quarter. Shares are down two and
three/arters of 1%. All of the areas
from coffee to snacks to baked goods.
All of them looking weaker. Coffee in
particular has been a problem with them
given higher costs with the tariffs on
Brazil. They're talking about a dynamic
environment is what the CEO cited.
Kohl's also reporting earnings, but they
had a brighter thanex expected outlook,
upgrading their fullear forecast. Shares
are up 21.4%.
It is a turnaround that appears to be
taking hold. And crucially, they also
upgraded their margin outlook, something
that's important for a lot of these
retailers with concerns around the
consumer. Now, elsewhere, Canada Goose
shares, the parka maker, those are
moving much higher as well, nearly
15.5%. CNBC reporting that they are
receiving interest of a take private.
Their controlling shareholder is Bang
Capital, a private equity firm
themselves. According to those reports,
Boou and Advent among the PE firms
looking at potentially taking Canada
Goose private for $1.35 billion because
John, apparently no companies want to be
public anymore.
>> Danny, how many times have we seen this
this month alone?
>> Every single day, every day it feels
like a new one.
>> Amazing. The latest Canada Goose there,
the speculation around that company.
Danny, thank you. Let's turn to the
economy. Investors are waiting. Key
inflation data due out on Friday as
President Trump ramps up pressure to ou
Fed Governor Lisa Cook and pack the Fed
with doves. Joining us now is Blimp's
Mike McKe who has more. Good morning,
Mike. Good morning, John. Well, the PCE
income, spending, and inflation numbers
will come out on Friday. Small changes
are expected, but in the wrong
direction, we're expecting to see
inflation rise a little bit. This is one
of those indicators where economists are
pretty good at forecasting it and so it
becomes something of a non-event at
least for the Fed. Uh but the income and
spending numbers will also play a role
particularly spending because that's the
follow on to the labor market. If people
have jobs, they have money and they
spend if they start cutting back then
that's something the Fed's going to
worry about. And meanwhile we have to
continue to worry about what's happening
in the Lisa Cook situation. Uh she says
she's going to go to court. We're
waiting for a filing. She'll ask for an
injunction to pre prevent the president
from removing her from office until all
this is adjudicated. What we've seen in
the past with Trump's attempts to fire
people is that they get the injunction
and then an appeals court either upholds
it or throws it out and then they go to
the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court
has generally ruled for Trump. in this
case. I think that's kind of hard to see
happening in that uh the court has
already said there is an exception for
the Fed. They have to be fired for cause
and so far there's no proof that she did
anything. There are just allegations.
>> Mike, super messy, very messy situation.
Plank out. You know the institution
better than most. What's your response
been to their reaction in the last 24
hours?
I understand their reaction and I've
talked to people there about it and
basically their situation is they don't
know what Lisa Cook did or did not do.
They don't have all the facts. They're
waiting for her to tell them as well.
And so they can't come out and publicly
defend her at this point, but they don't
want to cut her loose either because
they know this is a major attack on the
Fed itself. So they're in something of a
dilemma. If they feel that Cook is
innocent or her mistakes were minor,
then you will probably hear Powell and
others come out to defend the
institution itself. The bottom line
question over the long run is if he did
get rid of her, would that keep Jay
Powell on the Fed when his term as
chairman is over, would he stay until
his term as a governor is over in 2028
just to frustrate the president?
>> It's something we still don't know the
answer to. Mike, can we just sit on the
legal situation? And I certainly don't
expect either of us to litigate it right
now live on TV, but we don't have an
official opening of a legal
investigation into these serious
allegations of fraud. Do we know how
Governor Cook has responded herself
internally with the Federal Reserve
leadership? Has she presented anything
to them to deny this? Because publicly
we haven't had a denial.
>> Well, she had not as of the time we were
in Jackson Hole. She may have in the
last 24 hours. One of the things she had
to do was get a lawyer. She has one now,
Abby Lel, who is advising her on how to
handle all this. But remember, uh, one
of these properties was in Ann Arbor,
Michigan. One was in Georgia. And she
has to collect the data, the paperwork
from both of those. And that could take
a little bit of time if she doesn't have
it handy uh because she moved to
Washington and left it somewhere or
something like that. So, uh, I thought
we might go into this week without the
president making a move, but he didn't
wait. Uh, you'd think he'd want to wait
until at least there was some evidence,
but so far, uh, he's moving right ahead.
>> Mike McKe, thanks for the latest.
Appreciate the update from Mike McKe on
the Federal Reserve. The pressure keeps
building. It's going to take a long time
to play out based on the latest moves.
>> Going to take a long time to play out
because this is going to go through the
courts. What's interesting though is if
she gets this injunction, she's able to
continue working. How ridiculous. Almost
in a way is September going to feel that
press conference. Chair Powell is going
to have a lot to answer for and I don't
think just a one-word answer is going to
do it for the press.
>> September 17th. Keep repeating the date.
Federal Reserve meeting less than a
month away. Let's turn to interest rate
expectations. Matt Lazelli of Deutsche
Bank writing the following. We now see a
25 basis point rate cut in September as
most likely. After that, we see the Fed
delivering 25 basis point reductions in
December and in March. Matt joins us now
for more. Matt, good morning. Good
morning.
>> So this was a change. You weren't
expecting anything in September. Jackson
Hole happened. Talk to me about why that
was so important.
>> Yeah, we we had previously expected that
the Fed would wait until December to cut
rates and we had them then cutting
December, January and March by 75 basis
points. And our view was that the labor
market although slowing and weakening
was hanging in well enough to keep the
Fed on hold, but that also that we were
getting some troubling inflation data.
We saw it out of the PPI uh recently. Uh
we'll see it I think again from core PC
later this week. inflation around 3%,
the unemployment rate near 4.2%. The
argument for cutting in September was
not all that strong. Now in Jackson
Hall, I think we got a signal that Cher
Pow was leaning in that direction. I
think he indicated two things. One, the
balance of risks is shifting. He's a bit
more worried about the labor market. And
two, that that shifting and balance of
risks could warrant a policy response.
And so we took that as I think evidence
enough to pull forward a rate cut to
September.
>> What about as well the fact that JPAL
basically said you can look through
inflation prints? So this jobs number is
really important. What if it comes out
pretty strong?
>> So I I think if this jobs report comes
out pretty strong, it it probably more
tells us about October, December, and Q1
rate cuts than it does about September.
I think the signal from the chair at
this point was um look, we're still
restrictive at this point in time. We
have some way to go to towards neutral.
You're right. I think he had more
doubish comments on on the inflation
side. a lot of the language was the
same, but he adopted an argument from
Governor Waller, which was that uh as
long as the labor market is not overly
tight, this is probably not going to be
a persistent inflation shock. And so, I
think if you get a strong jobs report,
it'll be viewed in the context of the
jolts and the QCW data that we get,
which will point to downward revisions.
But I think more that'll that'll say is
the Fed coming in October, December, and
Q1 rather than September.
>> That word restrictive, I think they
could all agree at the moment they
believe they are restrictive. When does
that conversation get a little bit more
tricky on the Federal Reserve? Is it
another 50 basis points, 75 basis
points? When does that conversation get
harder?
>> Look, I think that conversation is
already tricky for for the Fed. I think
it's tricky from the the types of
indicators that we look at. On many
indicators, the Fed is not meaningfully
or modestly restrictive. They're
probably close to neutral. Uh, one thing
that we look at are financial
conditions. On the Fed's own measures of
financial conditions, they are the
easiest that they've been since the Fed
started raising rates in early 2022. uh
in that context they were probably not
all that restrictive. Now Pal has to
balance this amongst the committee which
is I think increasingly divided on on
all key issues including where they are
neutral and and and clearly Pal took a
stand here. He was not in the camp of of
those hawks that think that we're at
neutral or very close to at this point
in time. He thinks that they have at
least a little bit of space to cut
rates.
>> The New York Fed President John Williams
weighed in on some of this. Is he an
outlier or do you suspect that's the
core view on the central bank? So I I
think John Williams uh you know the
history here is that he has two of the
canonical measures of of of our star uh
and those two measures do still show
neutral our star at low levels not as
low as it was pre- pandemic but but at
still at historically low levels. My
view is if you look at kind of a suite
of indicators that that are out there um
neutral is higher than than what those
indicators suggest and you can see from
term term structure models market
pricing other Fed models are that are
out there. Um, and so I just think that
the balance of evidence is that ourstar
has moved meaningfully higher relative
to where it was in 2020.
>> If they're cutting though in what you
think twice this year, 2026, when the
president says he's looking forward to
having this majority at the Fed, how
much room do they actually have to cut
it?
>> It's a great question. And the market,
although we've seen a move lower in the
front end of the curve, the market is
still basically pricing a 3% Fed funds
rate next year. Now, that sounds
aggressive to us cuz we think neutral is
higher, but the Fed's long run dot and
their guidance on neutral is still
towards 3%. So, it's not really
outlandish. We have not built in any
change in reaction function for the Fed
next year. And so, we have the Fed
stopping in March uh between 3.5 and
3.75% rates. Um, I think as you see some
shifts in the Fed personnel, as we get a
sense of who the new Fed chair will be,
we might very well have to build in a
more doish reaction function because
that's that's likely where it's moving.
>> When you look at potentially the names
that are being floated around, who do
you think's the dovous of the dove?
>> Uh, so I think it's hard to know. I I
think the arguments that we've made uh
for a few months at least is that
Governor Waller seemed more likely than
other candidates to us. Um, because it's
not just how dovish are you. I think
it's whether or not you can get the rest
of the committee on board for your
dovish arguments. Can you bring together
a very divided committee to forge a
consensus or a majority towards those
cuts and I thought Governor Waller was
kind of well placed to do that. I think
over the past few months he has made
that argument. You know certainly after
dissenting in July getting some weaker
labor market data. I think that's helped
his prospects.
>> Chairman Pal's speech speaks for itself
and Marie said it. I think we all have
it sounded like something Governor
Waller had written himself particularly
on the labor market. And I'd love to
finish there with you just your views on
the labor market and how they contrast
with the chairman's view at the moment
which seems to have changed. In the news
conference, he anchored his view on the
labor market which he called solid
around the unemployment rate and the
general view from some economist. I'm
not sure if that includes you, but it
certainly includes some on Wall Street.
That's yes, we had a step down in
payrolls growth, but ultimately we
hadn't seen an increase in labor market
slack and measures of slack had remained
stable. That doesn't seem to be doesn't
appear to be something he's putting a
lot of weight on. Is there some daylight
between you and him at the moment on how
you view labor?
>> So I think there's nuance in his
comments. I think he's still you know
pointed to the fact that the
unemployment rate and measurements of
labor market slack have not moved
higher. Uh at the same time I think he
has noted that the pace of the
downgrades on the payroll side increases
downside risks and with those risks even
if your view is that the baseline is
solid it makes take makes sense to take
out some insurance in the near term. I
would generally agree with that view. We
we we view the quits rate and the
unemployment rate and job openings to
unemployed as being very stable over the
past year. We think payroll gains could
be 50,000 and keep those measures stable
given what's happening on on the
immigration
>> 50k 50k could be lower given given
what's happening on on the immigration
side. But I think it makes sense from
monetary policy as you're balancing the
risks. You would want to get some some
clarity that we're stabilizing around
those levels rather than continuing to
see payroll gains fall.
>> What's your guess for next Friday?
uh we haven't put out a kind of a
preview yet. It's a a little bit too
early. But but but I I would anticipate
uh maybe two things. One, that you do
get a little bit of a bounce back in the
in the payrolls data. Okay. Uh ADP was
actually pretty solid last month. When
you look at the jobless claims data,
they they've remained solid. The other
data point that I would mention is a big
part of the unemployment rate last month
was this surge in new entrance. It was a
record surge that that happened. Often
times as that happens, it gets reversed
the next month and you have downward
pressure on the unemployment rate. So
those two things suggest a reasonably
solid jobs report. Next
>> Matt Lazelli of Deutsch Bank. Matt,
appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Let's cross over
to Yahara to get your Bloomberg brief
and a news update. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Trump is stepping up
his efforts to exert more control over
the central bank. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, the Trump
administration is reviewing options for
exerting more influence over the Fed's
12 regional banks that would extend
potential that would potentially extend
its reach beyond personnel appointments
in Washington. Meanwhile, we are seeing
shares of Abbercrombie and Fitch falling
nearly 3 and a half% in the pre-market
despite the retailer raising its fullear
sales guidance following a stronger than
expected quarter at its teen focused
Hollister brand. It's the second
straight quarter the retailer boosted
its revenue outlook. Investors are not
impressed. And Taylor Swift getting her
own Super Bowlsized ring from Kansas
City Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce. If
you haven't seen the pop star announced
their engagement on Instagram yesterday
and the news of their impending nuptuals
sparked a flood of online bets on a
possible wedding date and when the
couple might have a baby. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhierra, thank you. Appreciate it. Is
this going to spark a load of marriages
across the country? Now,
>> I I think I saw people online
celebrating as if they got engaged. Huge
media coup for the couple.
>> There we go. Up next on the program, I
just don't care. I know other people do.
It's a feelood story. I just can't I'm
happy for them. All right. Up next,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, Troy Geski of Future Standards
going to join us on this market as we
count you down for the opening bell and
the main event later on this afternoon.
From New York, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
I wish there was a more intellectual
appeal about the Fed's role as opposed
to come with bogus charges. This is more
about his effort to exert control over
the Fed because I think they're
concerned that their trade agenda is is
causing great weakness in the labor
market and they want rates lower. And to
be fair, this is what the president has
always wanted is lower rates even when
he had the option to appoint Jerome Pal
in the first administration. That was
Mark Shaw, the former chief of staff to
the former VP Mike Pence on a program a
little bit earlier. in your market right
now as we count you down to the opening
bell about 42 minutes away. Equity
futures pretty much unchanged on the S&P
500 on the NASDAQ 100 negative by close
to a tenth of 1%. We've had some
outperformance on the small caps, bit of
underperformance this morning. We're
down by 2/10en of 1%. Turn to the bond
market. Intriguing moves at the front
and long end of the curve on the month
so far. 30-year bond yields at the
highs, 2-year bond yields at the lows.
The difference between the two, 130
basis points. That is the widest going
back to late 21, early 22. That curve is
getting steeper and steeper by the day.
We'll come back to the bond market in
just a moment. Let's get to the day
ahead as we count you down to that
opening battle at 1:00 a.m. or 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time. The US Treasury is
auctioning $70 billion of 5-year notes
after the market close. Nvidia earnings
onto Thursday, another round of jobless
claims. And on Friday, core PC plus
consumer sentiment data coming up a
little bit later. As we look ahead to
those Nvidia earnings after the closing
bell, Troy Geski of Future Standards
writing, "Nvidia's results are hugely
important to the market in order to
validate the continued growth of AI
spend." Joining us now to discuss is
Troy. Troy, welcome to the program. Big
earnings event later on this afternoon.
What do you expecting?
>> Yeah, so there's no reason to expect any
dramatic uh underperformance or
disappointment. You know, markets have
already brought down forward revenue
growth expectations, but you know, the
big picture here is, you know, we're in
the midst of one of the greatest
business fixed investment booms of all
time. And this year alone, about 55
basis points of additional GDP
contribution will come from just the
four hyperscalers in Apple. And next
year, that should be about 40 basis
points of additional spending on an over
$30 trillion nominal GDP. So the
importance doesn't only go to the actual
capital markets in terms of justifying
these multiples and current valuations,
but also that we're going to continue to
have this tremendous growth tailwind
that helps reduce recession risk and
drive higher GDP than clearly we would
have otherwise. John
>> Troy, we continuously hear though that
the big question mark heading into the
earnings today is going to be about
China. How are you thinking about
Nvidia's access to that market? Yeah, I
I think that's obviously the wild card
and you know markets you'd hate to say
we'll look past that, but that's an
uncontrollable variable. What you see
going forward though from the four
hyperscalers is clearly more spending
and obviously Nvidia has a borderline
monopoly on that market. So, you know,
the multiple I rather the multiple be
25% lower than it is today. I mean the
the whole hyperscaler complex, you know,
what I refer to as the Fab Five. If you
have four companies spending like crazy,
one company's the the beneficiary, um
those multiples have revalued fully,
which is the biggest danger for markets
today. And that if there is
disappointment, um there's more downside
versus say 6 to 8 weeks ago when whether
you looked at Meta or Google uh even
Nvidia at that point had a more rational
multiple. So things are priced to
perfection. Uh, but the AI spends,
Nvidia's earnings go far beyond just
market conditions and really spill over
into the broader economy.
>> Troy, if their price per for perfection,
is just coming in banging line enough or
do they really need to outperform this
evening?
>> Yeah, I think it's continue to be as
long as there's marginal outperformance,
doesn't have to be blockbuster
outperformance like we've seen the past
few quarters, I think markets will
digest that well. Doesn't mean there's
material upside from here. It just means
that we we're set up to have a strong Q4
in a in a different outcome. If they
disappoint, you know, then you're going
to have a series of questions that are
raised again about what's the ROIC on
the AI spends, when are the hyperscalers
going to start to not necessarily cut
back, but cease to grow at these
meteoric paces. A and so in terms of
that number, if it's disappointing, then
you're going to have a lot of questions
of whether or not we can finish the year
with strength. Um, in the short term
though, uh, it'll take quite an
exceptional earnings number to drive
higher higher upside from here.
>> Troy, can we just turn to this push to
go private that we've seen emerge
massive for the month of August. We saw
this with Soho House just last week,
seeing it again this morning. Danny was
talking about the prospect of it
happening with Canada Goose. Troy,
what's happening? What explains that
shift from public to private? Oh, look.
So, we've had this tremendous
transformation of the US economy over
the last 20 25 years really starting
with Sarbain Oxley where you created a
real disincentive for companies to be
public. Um, and over time as you had
this substantial capital inflow into
private equity and private credit behind
it in order to finance a lot of these
companies that roughly have 50 LTV. You
know, it's really stunning that, you
know, 96% of the companies in America
that have 100 or more employees are
privately held, right? Right. And we've
always thought the sweet spot of that is
mid-market somewhere between 10 million
and a billion of revenue. That's not
changing, right? It slowed down during
post liberation day. There was a lot of
financing being lined up, a lot of
enthusiasm about mergers. The brakes
were hit, but that's expected to come
back in really dramatic fashion uh in
Q4. And we're seeing it, you know, in
our credit businesses where, you know, a
lot of the capital we're lining up to
finance certain situations are really
focused not not just on uh private to
private transactions, but continuing
that mega theme of of public to private.
>> Troy, it's good to hear from you as
always. Troy Gerski there at Future
Standard seen a lot of those moves take
place over the past month and maybe more
still to come in the months to come.
Coming up tomorrow, big lineup for you.
Dan of Wed Bush on Nvidia earnings.
We'll catch up with Stuart Kaiser of
City, Gita Openath the IMF and Matt
Stuki of Northwestern Mutual. We're
going to catch up with Lisa tomorrow.
She's going to drop by going into the
weekend just to get her thoughts on
what's happening with the global economy
and the latest developments in this bond
market as the pressure continues to
build on this Federal Reserve.
>> Absolutely. The pressure going to be
continuing to build, Jonathan. But so
everyone knows, it is going to be a long
slog depending on what happens at the
Federal Reserve. There's going to be a
court battle that shapes up and as soon
as this week, we're probably going to
get this injunction from the governor
and that will basically tell us whether
or not she'll be there in September
voting for a rate cut or not.
>> Well, there's two different things going
on here and I think we have to keep
referring to the two different things.
One is the president's ability to fire a
sitting Fed governor and the reason he
has for it and the other ultimately is
the allegations of mortgage fraud. We
still don't have an official
investigation open up on that. We still
haven't had an official denial from the
governor, Lisa Cook. Some people might
have sympathy with the fact that there
still isn't an investigation, but
ultimately you'd have to think that if
the evidence was there at some point in
the next few weeks, she's going to
present that internally to the Fed
share. And if she isn't able to do that,
do we end up in the same situation that
we were in a number of years ago when
some Fed officials had to step aside?
>> Exactly. There are two different paths
but they might all end up at the same
place which is the fact that this
becomes untenable for her to
continuously serving and she has to
resign because of not just the pressure
but she's not in herself her own
capacity able to fight this case and a
big question is going to be whether or
not the fed really comes out in her
defense because right now all the fed
said is like we are going to abide by
what the court decides.
>> You've described how awkward it might be
on September 17th. We have Governor Lisa
Kush still there. Steven Myron current
chair. He could be confirmed by the time
we get to that.
>> He might be confirmed. We reported last
night the Senate banking hearing is
going to move quickly in terms of his
hearing because they're starting it next
week. His hearing though is going to be
an absolute referendum at least for the
Democrats on Fed independence.
>> That hearing is going to come up very
shortly. Amry, this was fun. It's good
to have you back in a seat.
>> Thanks.
>> Let's turn to the markets as we count
you down to the up and bell about 35
minutes away. Equity futures on the S&P
500 shaping up as follows, just about
unchanged as we wait for earnings from
Nvidia. As we often repeat, it makes up
8% of the S&P, 10% of the NASDAQ 100.
And the enthusiasm across the whole
sector and beyond will be shaped by that
one name alone later on this afternoon.
In the bond market, a few things to look
out for. The move at the front end
compared to the move of the long end. At
the very front end of the curve, yields
are lower by three basis points. At the
long end, higher by three basis points.
495 and climbing as we approach that
line in the sand and get closer to 5%.
From New York City, thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV.